## Personalized Dietary Plan for P10

**Participant Summary:**

P10 is an 18-year-old female who is Hispanic or Latino and identifies with Mexican culture. She is 5'0" tall and weighs 125 pounds, resulting in a BMI of 22.2, which falls within the healthy weight range. She is a physically active individual, walking to class daily and going to the gym four days a week. P10 enjoys sweet, salty, sour, and umami flavors, and her preferred textures include crunchy, creamy, chewy, smooth, tender, and fibrous. She has a high spice tolerance (level 4) and is open to trying new foods (willingness level 3). Her dietary goal is weight loss (calorie deficit) and her activity goal is to increase her activity levels. She prefers no dietary restrictions and is willing to spend $70 per week on groceries. 

**Dietary Needs:**

P10's dietary needs focus on:

* **Calorie Deficit:** Creating a calorie deficit to support weight loss while maintaining adequate nutrients. 
* **Diverse and Flavorful Meals:** Providing a variety of options with diverse flavors to prevent monotony and ensure enjoyment.
* **Nutrient Density:** Focusing on foods high in nutrients to support her active lifestyle and overall health. 
* **Food Exploration:** Incorporating foods outside her cultural background to broaden her culinary horizons.

**Activity Notes:**

P10's existing activity level is commendable. To further increase her activity, she could:

* **Explore New Activities:** Try activities like dancing, swimming, or team sports to maintain motivation. 
* **Increase Duration:** Gradually increase the duration of her gym workouts or incorporate longer walks into her routine. 
* **Add Intensity:** Add challenging exercises or interval training to her workouts.

**Daily Dietary Plan (2 Meals/Day):**

**Meal 1: Breakfast (Approx. 400 Calories)**

* **Option 1:**  Oatmeal with Berries and Nuts (400 calories, $2)
   * Oatmeal: Carbohydrates (57 grams), Sugars (3 grams), Protein (5 grams), Fats (2 grams), Sodium (2 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Blueberries: Carbohydrates (14 grams), Sugars (10 grams), Protein (1 gram), Fats (0.5 grams), Sodium (1 milligram), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Almonds: Carbohydrates (6 grams), Sugars (1 gram), Protein (6 grams), Fats (14 grams), Sodium (1 milligram), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
* **Option 2:**  Scrambled Eggs with Avocado and Salsa (400 calories, $3)
   * Eggs: Carbohydrates (0 grams), Sugars (0 grams), Protein (6 grams), Fats (5 grams), Sodium (62 milligrams), Cholesterol (186 milligrams).
   * Avocado: Carbohydrates (9 grams), Sugars (1 gram), Protein (2 grams), Fats (21 grams), Sodium (7 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Salsa: Carbohydrates (11 grams), Sugars (7 grams), Protein (1 gram), Fats (1 gram), Sodium (260 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
* **Option 3:**  Breakfast Burrito with Black Beans and Eggs (400 calories, $3)
   * Whole Wheat Tortilla: Carbohydrates (29 grams), Sugars (1 gram), Protein (3 grams), Fats (1 gram), Sodium (100 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Black Beans: Carbohydrates (20 grams), Sugars (1 gram), Protein (4 grams), Fats (1 gram), Sodium (1 milligram), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Eggs: Carbohydrates (0 grams), Sugars (0 grams), Protein (6 grams), Fats (5 grams), Sodium (62 milligrams), Cholesterol (186 milligrams).
* **Option 4:**  Yogurt Parfait with Granola and Berries (400 calories, $2)
   * Greek Yogurt: Carbohydrates (10 grams), Sugars (4 grams), Protein (20 grams), Fats (3 grams), Sodium (110 milligrams), Cholesterol (10 milligrams).
   * Granola: Carbohydrates (28 grams), Sugars (11 grams), Protein (4 grams), Fats (6 grams), Sodium (120 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Strawberries: Carbohydrates (11 grams), Sugars (7 grams), Protein (1 gram), Fats (0.5 grams), Sodium (1 milligram), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).

**Meal 2: Dinner (Approx. 500 Calories)**

* **Option 1:**  Chicken Fajita Bowl with Quinoa and Veggies (500 calories, $4)
   * Chicken Breast: Carbohydrates (0 grams), Sugars (0 grams), Protein (31 grams), Fats (3 grams), Sodium (68 milligrams), Cholesterol (84 milligrams).
   * Quinoa: Carbohydrates (21 grams), Sugars (0 grams), Protein (4 grams), Fats (1 gram), Sodium (2 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Peppers and Onions: Carbohydrates (10 grams), Sugars (4 grams), Protein (1 gram), Fats (1 gram), Sodium (10 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
* **Option 2:**  Salmon with Roasted Sweet Potatoes and Green Beans (500 calories, $5)
   * Salmon: Carbohydrates (0 grams), Sugars (0 grams), Protein (20 grams), Fats (13 grams), Sodium (70 milligrams), Cholesterol (50 milligrams).
   * Sweet Potato: Carbohydrates (26 grams), Sugars (4 grams), Protein (2 grams), Fats (0.5 grams), Sodium (2 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Green Beans: Carbohydrates (7 grams), Sugars (2 grams), Protein (2 grams), Fats (0.5 grams), Sodium (3 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
* **Option 3:**  Lentil Soup with Whole Wheat Bread (500 calories, $3)
   * Lentil Soup: Carbohydrates (33 grams), Sugars (4 grams), Protein (18 grams), Fats (3 grams), Sodium (420 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Whole Wheat Bread: Carbohydrates (15 grams), Sugars (1 gram), Protein (2 grams), Fats (1 gram), Sodium (110 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
* **Option 4:**  Vegetarian Chili with Brown Rice (500 calories, $3)
   * Vegetarian Chili: Carbohydrates (42 grams), Sugars (5 grams), Protein (15 grams), Fats (5 grams), Sodium (400 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).
   * Brown Rice: Carbohydrates (45 grams), Sugars (0 grams), Protein (5 grams), Fats (1 gram), Sodium (2 milligrams), Cholesterol (0 milligrams).

**Notes:**

* P10 can adjust portion sizes based on her individual hunger and calorie needs.
* The weekly budget of $70 can be used to purchase a variety of fresh, frozen, and pantry staples to ensure diverse meal options. 
* P10 can explore new cuisines and ingredients to keep her meals interesting. 
* Regular monitoring of weight and calorie intake is recommended.

This dietary plan is designed to provide P10 with a balanced and flavorful plan that supports her weight loss goals and active lifestyle while encouraging exploration of new foods. It is crucial for her to consult with a registered dietitian for more personalized guidance and address any specific dietary needs or allergies. 
