## Personalized Dietary Plan for P11

**Participant Summary:** P11 is an 18-year-old Black male, 72 inches tall, and weighing 145 pounds. He is from the United States and identifies as Christian. He is currently underweight with a BMI of 19.5, indicating a need to gain weight. P11 enjoys savory flavors and crunchy textures, with a spice tolerance of 2. He is not restricted by any dietary guidelines and has no allergies or food aversions. He is willing to try new foods but has a lower willingness level, indicating a preference for familiar options. His active lifestyle includes gym workouts and basketball, twice a week for 37.5 minutes per day. 

**Dietary Needs:** P11 needs to increase his calorie intake to gain weight. His dietary plan should prioritize nutrient-dense foods to support his active lifestyle and overall health. He should focus on protein-rich foods for muscle growth, carbohydrates for energy, and healthy fats for satiety and hormone regulation.

**Activity Notes:** P11 should aim to increase his activity levels to further support weight gain and muscle development. He should consider incorporating more days of activity per week or increasing the duration of his workouts. He can also experiment with different types of exercise, such as resistance training, to further stimulate muscle growth.

**Daily Meal Plan:**

**Breakfast (approx. 400-500 calories):**

* **Option 1:** Oatmeal with 2 tbsp peanut butter, 1/2 cup blueberries, and 1/4 cup chopped almonds.
    * Carbohydrates: 40g, Sugars: 15g, Protein: 15g, Fat: 15g, Sodium: 150mg, Cholesterol: 5mg
* **Option 2:** Scrambled eggs with 1/4 cup diced ham, 1/2 cup spinach, and 1 slice whole-wheat toast.
    * Carbohydrates: 20g, Sugars: 2g, Protein: 25g, Fat: 15g, Sodium: 400mg, Cholesterol: 200mg
* **Option 3:** 1 cup Greek yogurt with 1/4 cup granola, 1/2 cup sliced strawberries, and 1 tbsp honey.
    * Carbohydrates: 30g, Sugars: 18g, Protein: 20g, Fat: 10g, Sodium: 150mg, Cholesterol: 10mg
* **Option 4:** 1 cup overnight oats with 1/4 cup chopped banana, 1/4 cup chopped walnuts, and 1/4 cup chia seeds.
    * Carbohydrates: 45g, Sugars: 10g, Protein: 10g, Fat: 15g, Sodium: 50mg, Cholesterol: 0mg

**Lunch (approx. 500-600 calories):**

* **Option 1:** Chicken Caesar salad with 4 oz grilled chicken breast, romaine lettuce, 1 tbsp parmesan cheese, and 1 tbsp Caesar dressing.
    * Carbohydrates: 15g, Sugars: 2g, Protein: 35g, Fat: 20g, Sodium: 400mg, Cholesterol: 40mg
* **Option 2:** 1 cup lentil soup with 1 slice whole-wheat bread and 1/4 cup sliced avocado.
    * Carbohydrates: 40g, Sugars: 5g, Protein: 20g, Fat: 15g, Sodium: 300mg, Cholesterol: 5mg
* **Option 3:** Turkey and avocado wrap with 4 oz turkey breast, 1/4 avocado, 1/4 cup spinach, and 1 tbsp hummus.
    * Carbohydrates: 35g, Sugars: 5g, Protein: 30g, Fat: 15g, Sodium: 200mg, Cholesterol: 10mg
* **Option 4:** Quinoa salad with 4 oz grilled salmon, 1/2 cup chopped vegetables, and 1 tbsp vinaigrette.
    * Carbohydrates: 40g, Sugars: 5g, Protein: 30g, Fat: 15g, Sodium: 150mg, Cholesterol: 50mg

**Dinner (approx. 600-700 calories):**

* **Option 1:** Beef and broccoli stir-fry with 4 oz beef, 1 cup broccoli, 1/2 cup brown rice, and 1 tbsp soy sauce.
    * Carbohydrates: 40g, Sugars: 5g, Protein: 35g, Fat: 15g, Sodium: 400mg, Cholesterol: 60mg
* **Option 2:** Salmon with roasted sweet potato and green beans.
    * Carbohydrates: 35g, Sugars: 5g, Protein: 30g, Fat: 20g, Sodium: 150mg, Cholesterol: 60mg
* **Option 3:** Chicken and black bean burrito with 4 oz chicken breast, 1/2 cup black beans, 1/4 cup salsa, and 1 tbsp sour cream.
    * Carbohydrates: 40g, Sugars: 5g, Protein: 30g, Fat: 15g, Sodium: 300mg, Cholesterol: 20mg
* **Option 4:** Veggie pasta with 1 cup whole-wheat pasta, 1 cup chopped vegetables, 1/4 cup ricotta cheese, and 1 tbsp pesto.
    * Carbohydrates: 50g, Sugars: 5g, Protein: 20g, Fat: 15g, Sodium: 250mg, Cholesterol: 10mg

**Snacks (approx. 150-200 calories):**

* **Option 1:** Handful of almonds and 1/4 cup dried cranberries.
    * Carbohydrates: 15g, Sugars: 10g, Protein: 6g, Fat: 12g, Sodium: 50mg, Cholesterol: 0mg
* **Option 2:** Greek yogurt with 1/4 cup berries and 1 tbsp granola.
    * Carbohydrates: 20g, Sugars: 10g, Protein: 15g, Fat: 5g, Sodium: 100mg, Cholesterol: 5mg
* **Option 3:** Apple slices with 2 tbsp peanut butter.
    * Carbohydrates: 25g, Sugars: 15g, Protein: 8g, Fat: 10g, Sodium: 100mg, Cholesterol: 0mg
* **Option 4:** Hard-boiled egg and 1/4 cup trail mix.
    * Carbohydrates: 15g, Sugars: 5g, Protein: 10g, Fat: 10g, Sodium: 100mg, Cholesterol: 180mg

**Food Budget:**

* Aim for approximately $50 per week for groceries. 
* Consider purchasing staples like eggs, milk, rice, and frozen vegetables in bulk for greater cost-effectiveness. 
* Utilize coupons and shop for sales to maximize savings.
* Explore local farmers markets for seasonal produce options.

**Notes:**

* This meal plan provides an example of different food options. P11 can adjust the meal plan according to his preferences and availability.
* P11 should prioritize cooking meals at home, as restaurant meals can be more expensive and less nutritious.
* It's important to stay hydrated by drinking water throughout the day.
* Regularly monitor his weight and adjust his calorie intake as needed.
* Consult a registered dietitian or healthcare professional for personalized dietary advice and support.

By following this plan, P11 can gain weight safely and effectively while enjoying a variety of nutritious foods. 
