## P14 Personalized Dietary Plan

**Participant Summary:** P14 is an 18-year-old female, 5'2" tall, weighing 100 pounds. She identifies as White and Asian and has cultural connections to the US and Philippines. She is an Atheist and enjoys walking 52.5 minutes a day, 5 days a week. P14 has a strong preference for sweet and savory flavors, enjoys crunchy, creamy, and chewy textures, and has a medium spice tolerance. Her preferred cuisines are Japanese, Chinese, and Italian, and she is eager to try new foods. P14's goal is to gain weight, so her dietary plan focuses on calorie surplus.

**Activity Notes:** P14 currently walks 52.5 minutes daily, 5 days a week. To reach her goal of "more activity," she could consider:

* **Increasing Walking Duration:** Aim for 60-75 minutes of walking daily.
* **Adding Strength Training:** 2-3 times a week for 30 minutes.
* **Exploring Other Activities:**  Swimming, biking, dancing, or joining a sports team.

**Dietary Plan:**

**Breakfast (Approx. 400-500 calories):**

**Option 1: Sweet & Savory**

* **1 cup Oatmeal (cooked with water or milk) (150 calories):** 34g carbs, 1g sugar, 5g protein, 3g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1/4 cup Mixed Berries (75 calories):** 18g carbs, 10g sugar, 1g protein, 0g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 tablespoon Peanut Butter (100 calories):** 4g carbs, 2g sugar, 4g protein, 7g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Soy Milk (85 calories):** 12g carbs, 8g sugar, 8g protein, 4g fat, 120mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Option 2: Japanese**

* **1 cup Miso Soup (100 calories):** 12g carbs, 2g sugar, 7g protein, 2g fat, 800mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1/2 cup Brown Rice (110 calories):** 24g carbs, 0g sugar, 3g protein, 0g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 scrambled egg (75 calories):** 6g carbs, 0g sugar, 6g protein, 5g fat, 62mg sodium, 186mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Green Tea (2 calories):** 0g carbs, 0g sugar, 0g protein, 0g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Option 3: Filipino**

* **1 cup Pandesal (200 calories):** 38g carbs, 5g sugar, 6g protein, 5g fat, 300mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1/2 cup Mango (60 calories):** 15g carbs, 12g sugar, 1g protein, 0g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 tablespoon Peanut Butter (100 calories):** 4g carbs, 2g sugar, 4g protein, 7g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Coconut Milk (100 calories):** 6g carbs, 5g sugar, 1g protein, 8g fat, 20mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Option 4: Western**

* **1 cup Greek Yogurt (150 calories):** 13g carbs, 6g sugar, 20g protein, 0g fat, 150mg sodium, 5mg cholesterol
* **1/4 cup Granola (125 calories):** 25g carbs, 7g sugar, 4g protein, 5g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1/2 cup Sliced Banana (75 calories):** 20g carbs, 14g sugar, 1g protein, 0g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Lunch (Approx. 500-600 calories):**

**Option 1: Sweet & Savory**

* **1 cup Chicken Salad (250 calories):** 7g carbs, 1g sugar, 30g protein, 10g fat, 350mg sodium, 60mg cholesterol
* **1/2 cup Brown Rice (110 calories):** 24g carbs, 0g sugar, 3g protein, 0g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Mixed Greens Salad (35 calories):** 4g carbs, 1g sugar, 1g protein, 1g fat, 10mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **2 tablespoons Vinaigrette Dressing (100 calories):** 1g carbs, 0g sugar, 0g protein, 11g fat, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Option 2: Japanese**

* **1 cup Salmon Teriyaki Bowl (350 calories):** 20g carbs, 10g sugar, 30g protein, 10g fat, 600mg sodium, 60mg cholesterol
* **1/2 cup Edamame (100 calories):** 17g carbs, 5g sugar, 11g protein, 3g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Cucumber Salad (50 calories):** 10g carbs, 3g sugar, 1g protein, 0g fat, 10mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Option 3: Filipino**

* **1 cup Adobo (300 calories):** 15g carbs, 2g sugar, 30g protein, 15g fat, 400mg sodium, 70mg cholesterol
* **1/2 cup Garlic Fried Rice (200 calories):** 35g carbs, 2g sugar, 3g protein, 5g fat, 300mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Mango Salad (100 calories):** 20g carbs, 15g sugar, 1g protein, 0g fat, 10mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Option 4: Italian**

* **1 cup Chicken Pesto Pasta (400 calories):** 50g carbs, 5g sugar, 25g protein, 10g fat, 500mg sodium, 50mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Caprese Salad (150 calories):** 15g carbs, 10g sugar, 3g protein, 5g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Dinner (Approx. 600-700 calories):**

**Option 1: Sweet & Savory**

* **4 ounces Grilled Salmon (200 calories):** 0g carbs, 0g sugar, 30g protein, 12g fat, 70mg sodium, 50mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Roasted Sweet Potato (180 calories):** 40g carbs, 4g sugar, 2g protein, 1g fat, 10mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Stir-fried Vegetables (100 calories):** 10g carbs, 2g sugar, 3g protein, 2g fat, 50mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 tablespoon Olive Oil (120 calories):** 0g carbs, 0g sugar, 0g protein, 14g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Option 2: Japanese**

* **1 cup Chicken Yakisoba (350 calories):** 40g carbs, 8g sugar, 20g protein, 10g fat, 600mg sodium, 50mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Wakame Salad (100 calories):** 10g carbs, 5g sugar, 4g protein, 1g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1/2 cup Green Tea Ice Cream (150 calories):** 20g carbs, 15g sugar, 2g protein, 7g fat, 80mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Option 3: Filipino**

* **1 cup Sinigang (250 calories):** 25g carbs, 10g sugar, 10g protein, 5g fat, 500mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Brown Rice (110 calories):** 24g carbs, 0g sugar, 3g protein, 0g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1/2 cup Grilled Fish (100 calories):** 0g carbs, 0g sugar, 20g protein, 5g fat, 50mg sodium, 20mg cholesterol

**Option 4: Italian**

* **1 cup Chicken Parmesan (450 calories):** 40g carbs, 10g sugar, 30g protein, 15g fat, 600mg sodium, 70mg cholesterol
* **1 cup Sautéed Spinach (40 calories):** 4g carbs, 1g sugar, 3g protein, 1g fat, 20mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* **1 slice Whole Wheat Bread (70 calories):** 15g carbs, 1g sugar, 2g protein, 1g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Snacks (Approx. 100-200 calories):**

* 1/4 cup Trail Mix (150 calories): 15g carbs, 5g sugar, 5g protein, 10g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* 1/2 cup Greek Yogurt with 1/4 cup Berries (150 calories): 15g carbs, 10g sugar, 10g protein, 0g fat, 100mg sodium, 5mg cholesterol
* 1 apple with 2 tablespoons Almond Butter (200 calories): 25g carbs, 15g sugar, 4g protein, 12g fat, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol
* 1/2 cup Popcorn (50 calories): 10g carbs, 0g sugar, 2g protein, 1g fat, 20mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol

**Total Calorie Estimate:**

* **Breakfast:** 400-500 calories
* **Lunch:** 500-600 calories
* **Dinner:** 600-700 calories
* **Snacks:** 100-200 calories (x2)

**Total:** 1800-2300 calories (with snacks)

**Weekly Budget:**

* **Estimated Weekly Grocery Budget:** $50-60 (based on your budget preference and availability of discounted or bulk items)
* **Additional Tips:** 
    * Look for store-brand options, especially for pantry staples like beans, grains, and spices.
    * Buy produce in season for better prices and freshness.
    * Freeze fresh produce for later use to reduce waste.
    * Cook in bulk and freeze leftovers for quick meals.

**Important Notes:**

* This plan is a general guide and should be adjusted based on P14's individual needs and preferences.
* Consult a healthcare professional or registered dietitian for personalized advice.
* Ensure a balanced intake of all food groups to meet nutritional requirements.
* Monitor progress and adjust the plan as needed based on weight gain and overall health.

**Disclaimer:** This dietary plan is provided for informational purposes only and should not be considered medical advice. It is crucial to consult with a qualified healthcare professional or registered dietitian for personalized guidance based on your individual needs and medical history.
