## P17's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Participant Summary:** P17 is an 18-year-old female, Asian, of Indian descent, and practices Islam. She is 61 inches tall and weighs 110 pounds, with a BMI of 19.1, placing her in the healthy weight category. She has no existing dietary restrictions except for pork and adheres to Halal guidelines. P17 enjoys sweet and salty flavors, prefers crunchy, chewy, and smooth textures, and has a spice tolerance of 3. She is very open to trying new foods. She is looking to maintain her current weight and increase her physical activity levels. She currently does at-home workouts, 5 days a week, for a total of 37.5 minutes daily. 

**Dietary Needs:** P17 requires a balanced diet that meets her caloric needs for maintaining her current weight and supports her active lifestyle. Given her openness to new foods and cuisines, the plan includes diverse options, incorporating both familiar Indian dishes and introducing other international cuisines, including Middle Eastern and Southeast Asian flavors. 

**Activity Notes:** P17's current activity levels are good, but she aims to increase them. Increasing workout duration, incorporating more challenging exercises, or adding interval training can further enhance her fitness goals. 

**Meal Plan:** P17 will have 2 meals per day, focusing on a balanced intake of protein, carbohydrates, and fats. 

**Meal 1: Breakfast (Approx. 400 Calories)**

**Option 1:** Masala Omelet with Chapati (420 calories)
* Nutritional Facts:
    * Chapati: 100g, 40g carbs, 1g sugars, 3g protein, 1g fat, 5mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Omelet: 100g, 8g carbs, 3g sugars, 15g protein, 12g fat, 100mg sodium, 180mg cholesterol.
* Masala: Turmeric, cumin, coriander, chili powder, garam masala.
* Price: $2.50

**Option 2:** Egg and Spinach Paratha with Yogurt (390 calories)
* Nutritional Facts: 
    * Paratha: 100g, 35g carbs, 2g sugars, 5g protein, 8g fat, 120mg sodium, 30mg cholesterol.
    * Spinach: 50g, 4g carbs, 2g sugars, 3g protein, 0.5g fat, 70mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Yogurt: 100g, 5g carbs, 5g sugars, 10g protein, 3g fat, 100mg sodium, 15mg cholesterol.
* Price: $3.00

**Option 3:** Banana Oatmeal with Nuts and Seeds (370 calories)
* Nutritional Facts:
    * Oatmeal: 50g, 15g carbs, 1g sugars, 3g protein, 3g fat, 60mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Banana: 100g, 27g carbs, 14g sugars, 1g protein, 0.3g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Almonds: 20g, 6g carbs, 1g sugars, 3g protein, 6g fat, 20mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Chia Seeds: 10g, 4g carbs, 1g sugars, 2g protein, 1g fat, 10mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
* Price: $2.00

**Option 4:** Mango Sticky Rice with Coconut Milk (410 calories)
* Nutritional Facts:
    * Sticky Rice: 100g, 35g carbs, 0.5g sugars, 2g protein, 0.5g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Mango: 100g, 15g carbs, 13g sugars, 1g protein, 0.5g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Coconut Milk: 100ml, 5g carbs, 4g sugars, 2g protein, 5g fat, 20mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
* Price: $3.50

**Meal 2: Lunch/Dinner (Approx. 600 Calories)**

**Option 1:** Chicken Tikka Masala with Rice (610 calories)
* Nutritional Facts:
    * Chicken Tikka: 150g, 10g carbs, 1g sugars, 30g protein, 10g fat, 150mg sodium, 100mg cholesterol.
    * Masala Sauce: 100g, 10g carbs, 5g sugars, 2g protein, 5g fat, 200mg sodium, 5mg cholesterol.
    * Rice: 100g, 25g carbs, 0.5g sugars, 3g protein, 0.5g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
* Price: $4.50

**Option 2:** Falafel Pita with Hummus and Tahini (590 calories)
* Nutritional Facts:
    * Falafel: 100g, 20g carbs, 1g sugars, 5g protein, 10g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Pita Bread: 100g, 40g carbs, 1g sugars, 5g protein, 2g fat, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Hummus: 50g, 10g carbs, 3g sugars, 4g protein, 8g fat, 120mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Tahini: 20g, 5g carbs, 1g sugars, 2g protein, 15g fat, 20mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
* Price: $4.00

**Option 3:** Pad Thai with Tofu (630 calories)
* Nutritional Facts:
    * Pad Thai Noodles: 100g, 30g carbs, 2g sugars, 3g protein, 1g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Tofu: 100g, 5g carbs, 1g sugars, 8g protein, 5g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
    * Pad Thai Sauce: 50g, 10g carbs, 5g sugars, 1g protein, 3g fat, 150mg sodium, 5mg cholesterol.
* Price: $3.50

**Option 4:** Vegetable Curry with Basmati Rice (580 calories)
* Nutritional Facts:
    * Vegetable Curry: 150g, 25g carbs, 8g sugars, 5g protein, 10g fat, 150mg sodium, 10mg cholesterol. 
    * Basmati Rice: 100g, 25g carbs, 0.5g sugars, 3g protein, 0.5g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol.
* Price: $3.00

**Overall:** 

P17's personalized dietary plan is designed to provide a balanced and delicious menu with diverse options that cater to her preferences and dietary needs. This plan encourages her to explore new cuisines while maintaining her weight and supporting her active lifestyle. Remember, this is a sample plan, and it is recommended to consult with a registered dietitian to create a customized dietary plan based on individual needs and preferences.
