## Personalized Dietary Plan for P24

**Participant Summary:** P24 is an 18-year-old Asian male from Pakistan and the USA who identifies as Muslim. He enjoys sweet, salty, and savory flavors and prefers crunchy, creamy, and smooth textures. He has a moderate spice tolerance and enjoys Chinese, Italian, and Middle Eastern cuisines. P24 is physically active, running/jogging for 67.5 minutes, 5 days a week. He has no dietary restrictions or allergies and is willing to try new foods. His goal is to maintain his current weight and activity level. 

**Dietary Needs:** As P24 is aiming to maintain his weight and is physically active, his diet should be balanced and provide enough calories to fuel his workouts. Since he enjoys a variety of cuisines, we'll include diverse options that align with his taste preferences and cultural background. We'll also incorporate halal options.

**Activity Notes:** P24's running/jogging routine is great for maintaining a healthy weight and cardiovascular health. Ensure adequate hydration before, during, and after workouts to prevent dehydration and support optimal performance. 

**Meal Frequency:**  P24 prefers 2 meals per day, which is perfectly fine for maintaining his weight and activity level. 

**Budget:** P24 has a budget of $110 per week for food, which allows for a variety of wholesome and affordable ingredients.

**Meal Options:**

**Breakfast (Approx. 450-550 calories, $3-4)**

* **Option 1:** Halal Chicken & Vegetable Stir-fry with Brown Rice (500 calories, $3.50)
    * Chicken Breast (3 oz, 105 calories, 24g protein, 1g carb, 4g fat, 70mg cholesterol, 75mg sodium)
    * Broccoli (1 cup, 34 calories, 2g protein, 7g carb, 1g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 60mg sodium)
    * Bell Peppers (½ cup, 15 calories, 1g protein, 4g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 8mg sodium)
    * Carrots (½ cup, 25 calories, 1g protein, 6g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 45mg sodium)
    * Brown Rice (½ cup, 110 calories, 4g protein, 23g carb, 1g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 1mg sodium)
    * Soy Sauce (1 tbsp, 10 calories, 0g protein, 1g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 940mg sodium)
    * Sesame Oil (1 tsp, 40 calories, 0g protein, 0g carb, 4g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 0mg sodium)
    * Ginger (1 tsp, 5 calories, 0g protein, 1g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 3mg sodium)
    * Garlic (1 clove, 4 calories, 0g protein, 1g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 4mg sodium)
* **Option 2:** Masala Omelette with Toast (480 calories, $3.00)
    * Eggs (2, 140 calories, 12g protein, 1g carb, 10g fat, 210mg cholesterol, 120mg sodium)
    * Onion (¼ cup, 10 calories, 1g protein, 2g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 4mg sodium)
    * Bell Peppers (¼ cup, 7 calories, 1g protein, 2g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 4mg sodium)
    * Masala Spices (½ tsp, 5 calories, 0g protein, 1g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 5mg sodium) 
    * Whole Wheat Toast (2 slices, 120 calories, 4g protein, 24g carb, 1g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 140mg sodium)
    * Butter (1 tbsp, 100 calories, 0g protein, 0g carb, 11g fat, 31mg cholesterol, 100mg sodium) 
* **Option 3:** Yogurt Parfait with Granola and Berries (450 calories, $4.00)
    * Greek Yogurt (1 cup, 150 calories, 20g protein, 10g carb, 5g fat, 10mg cholesterol, 120mg sodium)
    * Granola (¼ cup, 120 calories, 3g protein, 20g carb, 5g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 100mg sodium)
    * Berries (½ cup, 40 calories, 1g protein, 10g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 5mg sodium)
* **Option 4:** Oatmeal with Dates and Nuts (500 calories, $3.50)
    * Oatmeal (½ cup, 150 calories, 5g protein, 27g carb, 2g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 1mg sodium)
    * Dates (4, 100 calories, 1g protein, 25g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 1mg sodium)
    * Almonds (¼ cup, 170 calories, 6g protein, 6g carb, 14g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 80mg sodium)

**Lunch (Approx. 600-700 calories, $4-5)**

* **Option 1:** Halal Chicken Kabob with Rice and Salad (650 calories, $4.50)
    * Chicken Breast (4 oz, 140 calories, 32g protein, 0g carb, 5g fat, 105mg cholesterol, 75mg sodium)
    * Bell Peppers (½ cup, 15 calories, 1g protein, 4g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 8mg sodium)
    * Onions (¼ cup, 10 calories, 1g protein, 2g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 4mg sodium)
    * Kabob Spices (1 tsp, 5 calories, 0g protein, 1g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 5mg sodium)
    * White Rice (½ cup, 110 calories, 3g protein, 24g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 0mg sodium)
    * Salad Greens (1 cup, 10 calories, 1g protein, 2g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 10mg sodium) 
    * Cucumber (½ cup, 8 calories, 1g protein, 2g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 3mg sodium)
    * Tomato (½ cup, 22 calories, 1g protein, 5g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 8mg sodium)
    * Olive Oil (1 tbsp, 120 calories, 0g protein, 0g carb, 14g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 0mg sodium)
    * Lemon Juice (1 tbsp, 6 calories, 0g protein, 1g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 1mg sodium)
* **Option 2:** Lentil Soup with Whole Wheat Bread (600 calories, $4.00)
    * Lentil Soup (1 cup, 200 calories, 18g protein, 34g carb, 1g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 400mg sodium)
    * Whole Wheat Bread (2 slices, 120 calories, 4g protein, 24g carb, 1g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 140mg sodium)
    * Olive Oil (1 tbsp, 120 calories, 0g protein, 0g carb, 14g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 0mg sodium)
    * Vegetables (Optional: 1 cup)
* **Option 3:** Pasta Primavera with Chicken (680 calories, $4.50)
    * Chicken Breast (3 oz, 105 calories, 24g protein, 1g carb, 4g fat, 70mg cholesterol, 75mg sodium)
    * Whole Wheat Pasta (1 cup, 200 calories, 8g protein, 43g carb, 1g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 5mg sodium)
    * Mixed Vegetables (1 cup, 50 calories, 2g protein, 11g carb, 1g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 50mg sodium)
    * Garlic (1 clove, 4 calories, 0g protein, 1g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 4mg sodium) 
    * Olive Oil (1 tbsp, 120 calories, 0g protein, 0g carb, 14g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 0mg sodium)
    * Parmesan Cheese (1 tbsp, 20 calories, 3g protein, 0g carb, 1g fat, 15mg cholesterol, 90mg sodium)
* **Option 4:** Falafel Pita with Hummus and Salad (650 calories, $5.00)
    * Falafel (4, 250 calories, 10g protein, 30g carb, 10g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 500mg sodium)
    * Pita Bread (1, 100 calories, 4g protein, 22g carb, 1g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 100mg sodium)
    * Hummus (¼ cup, 100 calories, 4g protein, 10g carb, 8g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 150mg sodium)
    * Salad Greens (1 cup, 10 calories, 1g protein, 2g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 10mg sodium)
    * Tomato (½ cup, 22 calories, 1g protein, 5g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 8mg sodium)
    * Cucumber (½ cup, 8 calories, 1g protein, 2g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 3mg sodium)
    * Tahini (1 tbsp, 60 calories, 1g protein, 2g carb, 5g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 5mg sodium)

**Snacks (Optional, Approx. 150-200 calories, $1-2)**

* **Option 1:** Mixed Nuts (150 calories, $1.50)
    * Almonds (¼ cup, 170 calories, 6g protein, 6g carb, 14g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 80mg sodium)
    * Cashews (¼ cup, 160 calories, 5g protein, 9g carb, 13g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 70mg sodium)
    * Walnuts (¼ cup, 180 calories, 4g protein, 4g carb, 18g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 60mg sodium)
* **Option 2:** Fruit with Yogurt (180 calories, $1.75)
    * Greek Yogurt (½ cup, 75 calories, 10g protein, 5g carb, 3g fat, 5mg cholesterol, 60mg sodium)
    * Berries (½ cup, 40 calories, 1g protein, 10g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 5mg sodium)
* **Option 3:**  Whole Wheat Crackers with Hummus (170 calories, $1.50)
    * Whole Wheat Crackers (10, 100 calories, 2g protein, 20g carb, 2g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 100mg sodium)
    * Hummus (2 tbsp, 70 calories, 2g protein, 5g carb, 5g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 50mg sodium)
* **Option 4:**  Date and Nut Energy Balls (180 calories, $2.00)
    * Dates (3, 75 calories, 1g protein, 19g carb, 0g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 1mg sodium)
    * Almonds (¼ cup, 170 calories, 6g protein, 6g carb, 14g fat, 0mg cholesterol, 80mg sodium)
    * Optional: Cinnamon, Coconut Flakes, or Chia Seeds

**Important Note:**  These are just examples. Feel free to swap ingredients or adapt these options to your preferences. 

**Tips for Success:**

* **Meal Prep:** Prepare meals in advance on your weekends to save time during busy weekdays.
* **Grocery Shopping:**  Make a list and stick to it. Prioritize fresh produce, whole grains, and lean protein sources.
* **Read Labels:** Pay attention to serving sizes and sodium levels.
* **Stay Hydrated:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day, especially during and after exercise.
* **Mindful Eating:** Eat slowly and savor each bite.
* **Variety:**  Explore different cuisines and cooking methods to keep meals interesting.

By following these guidelines and seeking advice from a qualified nutritionist or dietitian, P24 can achieve his goals of maintaining a healthy weight and enjoying diverse, delicious meals. 
