## P25 Personalized Dietary Plan

**Participant Summary:**

P25 is an 18-year-old male of Asian descent, residing in India. He follows the Islamic faith and adheres to Halal dietary guidelines. P25 is active, playing soccer 3 days a week for a total of 67.5 minutes per day. His taste preferences include sweet, salty, sour, and umami flavors, and he enjoys crunchy, chewy, and tender textures. He has a high willingness to try new foods (5/5) and is open to exploring cuisines from other cultures. 

**Dietary Needs:**

P25 is aiming for weight gain and to maintain his current activity level. He needs a calorie surplus to fuel his soccer training and promote muscle growth. This plan focuses on providing a balanced diet with a sufficient protein intake to support muscle building and a diverse selection of foods to satisfy his taste and textural preferences. 

**Activity Notes:**

P25 should focus on proper hydration before, during, and after his soccer training to prevent dehydration and support performance. He can incorporate healthy snacks rich in carbohydrates and protein, like fruit and nuts, between meals and after training to refuel his energy stores.

**Daily Meal Plan (Approx. 2500 calories):**

**Breakfast (Approx. 400 calories):**

* **Option 1:**  **Halal Yogurt Parfait (400 calories)** - 1 cup plain Greek yogurt (150 calories), 1/2 cup fruit (100 calories), 1/4 cup granola (50 calories)
* **Option 2:** **Besan Chilla (420 calories)** - 1/2 cup besan (gram flour) (100 calories), 1/4 cup milk (60 calories), 1/4 cup water (0 calories), 1/4 cup chopped vegetables (50 calories), 1 tbsp oil (120 calories), 1/4 tsp spices (0 calories)
* **Option 3:** **Egg White Omelette (400 calories)** - 3 egg whites (60 calories), 1/2 cup chopped vegetables (50 calories), 1/4 cup cheese (100 calories), 1 tbsp olive oil (120 calories)
* **Option 4:** **Pancakes with Berries (410 calories)** - 2 pancakes (200 calories), 1/4 cup fruit (60 calories), 1 tbsp maple syrup (50 calories), 1 tbsp butter (100 calories)

**Lunch (Approx. 600 calories):**

* **Option 1:** **Chicken Tikka Masala with Brown Rice (620 calories)** - 4oz chicken (120 calories), 1/2 cup brown rice (100 calories), 1/2 cup tikka masala sauce (200 calories), 1/4 cup chopped onions and cilantro (20 calories), 1 tbsp oil (120 calories) 
* **Option 2:** **Salmon with Roasted Vegetables (600 calories)** - 4 oz salmon (180 calories), 1/2 cup roasted vegetables (200 calories), 1 tbsp olive oil (120 calories), 1 tbsp lemon juice (10 calories)
* **Option 3:** **Falafel Pita with Hummus and Vegetables (610 calories)** - 3 falafel (150 calories), 1 whole wheat pita (100 calories), 1/4 cup hummus (100 calories), 1/4 cup chopped vegetables (50 calories), 1 tbsp olive oil (110 calories)
* **Option 4:** **Lentil Soup with Whole Wheat Bread (610 calories)** - 1 cup lentil soup (200 calories), 2 slices whole wheat bread (160 calories), 1 tbsp olive oil (120 calories), 1 tsp spices (30 calories)

**Dinner (Approx. 600 calories):**

* **Option 1:** **Lamb Biryani with Raita (600 calories)** - 4 oz lamb (140 calories), 1 cup biryani rice (200 calories), 1/4 cup raita (120 calories), 1/4 cup chopped onions and cilantro (20 calories), 1 tbsp oil (120 calories)
* **Option 2:** **Chicken Stir-Fry with Noodles (610 calories)** - 4 oz chicken (120 calories), 1 cup stir-fry vegetables (100 calories), 1/2 cup noodles (150 calories), 1 tbsp soy sauce (20 calories), 1 tbsp sesame oil (120 calories)
* **Option 3:** **Halal Beef with Sweet Potato and Asparagus (620 calories)** - 4 oz beef (140 calories), 1/2 cup sweet potato (100 calories), 1/2 cup asparagus (40 calories), 1 tbsp olive oil (120 calories), 1 tbsp lemon juice (20 calories)
* **Option 4:** **Tuna Salad with Quinoa and Greens (600 calories)** - 4 oz tuna (140 calories), 1/2 cup quinoa (120 calories), 1 cup mixed greens (20 calories), 1/4 cup low-fat mayonnaise (60 calories), 1 tbsp olive oil (120 calories) 

**Snacks (Approx. 100 calories each):**

* **Option 1:**  **Fruit and Nuts (100 calories)** - 1/2 cup fruit (50 calories), 1/4 cup nuts (50 calories)
* **Option 2:** **Yogurt with Berries (100 calories)** - 1/2 cup plain Greek yogurt (70 calories), 1/4 cup berries (30 calories)
* **Option 3:** **Hard-boiled Eggs (100 calories)** - 2 hard-boiled eggs (100 calories)
* **Option 4:** **Whole Wheat Crackers with Hummus (100 calories)** - 10 crackers (50 calories), 1 tbsp hummus (50 calories)

**Approximate Weekly Budget:**

This meal plan is designed to fit within a $50 weekly budget. However, the actual cost may vary depending on the specific grocery store and brand choices. 

**Important Notes:**

* This meal plan is a starting point. P25 should adjust it based on his personal preferences and energy needs.
* He should consult with a registered dietitian or healthcare professional for personalized advice, especially if he has any specific dietary needs or medical conditions. 
* P25 should focus on consuming whole, unprocessed foods with a minimal amount of added sugar and sodium. 

By following this plan, P25 can achieve his weight gain goal while enjoying a diverse and delicious diet. 
