## P2 Personalized Dietary Plan

**Participant Summary:**

P2 is an 18-year-old female of Asian descent, specifically Pakistani heritage. She is Muslim and adheres to Halal dietary restrictions. P2 enjoys sweet, salty, and umami flavors, and prefers crunchy, creamy, and fibrous textures. She has a medium spice tolerance level and is willing to try new foods. Her preferred cuisines are Indian and Pakistani, and she is not a vegetarian. Her goal is to maintain her current weight of 110 pounds and increase her physical activity level. P2 currently engages in walking and gym workouts for 67.5 minutes, 6 days a week. 

**Activity Notes:**

P2 should aim to further increase her physical activity level, aiming for 75-90 minutes per day, incorporating more diverse activities such as jogging, swimming, or group fitness classes. 

**Dietary Needs:**

P2's dietary needs focus on maintaining her current weight, meeting her calorie needs, and ensuring proper nutrition. Since she is active, she will require a slightly higher calorie intake than someone with a sedentary lifestyle. Additionally, Halal dietary restrictions will be considered in the meal plan.

**Meal Plan (with Approximate Calorie Count & Price):**

**Breakfast (Approx. 350-450 calories, $1-2 per serving):**

* **Option 1:** Halal Chicken & Vegetable Omelette (400 calories, $1.50): Use a Halal chicken sausage, chopped bell peppers, spinach, and a sprinkle of low-fat cheddar cheese. 
* **Option 2:**  Poha (450 calories, $1): A popular Indian breakfast dish made with flattened rice, sautéed with onions, potatoes, and spices. 
* **Option 3:**  Overnight Oats with Fruits & Nuts (350 calories, $2): Combine rolled oats, almond milk, banana slices, blueberries, and a sprinkle of chopped almonds.
* **Option 4:**  Scrambled Eggs with Feta & Herbs (400 calories, $1.50): Use a blend of herbs like dill, parsley, and chives, and crumbled feta cheese for a Greek twist.

**Lunch (Approx. 500-600 calories, $2-3 per serving):**

* **Option 1:**  Halal Chicken Tikka Salad (550 calories, $2.50): Marinated Halal chicken breast with mixed greens, cucumber, tomato, and a light yogurt dressing.
* **Option 2:**  Chicken & Vegetable Stir-fry with Brown Rice (500 calories, $2):  Use Halal chicken breast, broccoli, carrots, snow peas, and soy sauce for flavor.
* **Option 3:**  Lentil Soup with Whole Wheat Bread (550 calories, $2): A hearty and flavorful soup with red lentils, onions, carrots, and spices.
* **Option 4:**  Tuna Salad Wrap with Hummus (600 calories, $3):  Use canned tuna in water, chopped celery, red onion, and a light yogurt-based dressing, wrapped in a whole wheat tortilla with a dollop of hummus.

**Dinner (Approx. 600-700 calories, $3-4 per serving):**

* **Option 1:**  Halal Chicken Curry with Basmati Rice (650 calories, $3.50):  A classic Indian dish with coconut milk, spices, and a Halal chicken breast. 
* **Option 2:**  Grilled Salmon with Roasted Vegetables (600 calories, $4):  Use grilled or baked salmon with a side of roasted broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and sweet potato. 
* **Option 3:**  Lentil & Vegetable Curry with Naan Bread (650 calories, $3):  A vegetarian option with coconut milk, spices, and a blend of vegetables, served with a Halal-certified naan bread. 
* **Option 4:**  Pasta with Marinara Sauce & Meatballs (700 calories, $3.50):  Use a Halal-certified marinara sauce, lean meatballs, and whole wheat pasta.

**Snacks (Approx. 150-200 calories, $1 per serving):**

* **Option 1:**  Fruits with Nuts (150 calories, $1):  Choose fruits like apples, bananas, or berries, paired with almonds or walnuts.
* **Option 2:**  Yogurt with Granola (200 calories, $1):  Use a Halal-certified yogurt with a small amount of granola for a quick snack.
* **Option 3:**  Hummus & Veggie Sticks (150 calories, $1):  Use a Halal-certified hummus with carrot, cucumber, or bell pepper sticks.
* **Option 4:**  Hard-Boiled Eggs (150 calories, $0.50):  A protein-rich snack option.

**Nutritional Facts (Example - Halal Chicken & Vegetable Omelette):**

| Nutrient | Grams |
|---|---|
| Carbohydrates | 10 |
| Sugars | 2 |
| Protein | 25 |
| Fats | 15 |
| Sodium | 300 |
| Cholesterol | 200 | 

**Note:**  This is a sample meal plan and can be tailored to P2's individual preferences. It is recommended to use a food tracking app or consult with a registered dietitian to further personalize the diet and ensure it meets P2's specific nutritional needs and goals. 
