## Personalized Dietary Plan for P30

**Participant Summary:**

P30 is an 18-year-old Black male with an interest in Congolese and American culture. He enjoys sweet, salty, sour, and umami flavors, and prefers crunchy, creamy, chewy, and smooth textures. He is willing to try new foods and enjoys Mexican, Congolese, Mediterranean, and American cuisines. He is active in bicycling and weightlifting, exercising for 22.5 minutes twice a week. He aims to gain weight and increase his activity levels. 

**Dietary Needs:**

P30's dietary needs are primarily focused on weight gain and supporting his activity levels. He needs to consume a calorie surplus to fuel muscle growth and enhance performance in his weightlifting and bicycling activities. It is important to ensure he gets adequate protein for muscle repair and growth. 

**Activity Notes:**

P30's current activity level is moderate. He should aim to gradually increase his activity frequency and duration for optimal weight gain and improved physical health. It is suggested he aim for 30 minutes of activity most days of the week, incorporating both cardio (bicycling) and strength training (weightlifting). 

**Meal Plan:**

P30's diet plan will consist of four meals per day, with a focus on diverse options incorporating his preferred cuisines and a willingness to explore new foods. Approximate prices and calorie counts are provided for each meal option, based on a grocery budget of $190 per week.

**Breakfast (Average Price: $2.50, Average Calories: 500-600):**

1. **Congolese Breakfast Bowl:** 1 cup cooked quinoa, 1/2 cup black beans, 1/4 avocado, 1/4 cup salsa, 1 egg (over easy), 1/2 cup sliced banana (580 calories)
2. **Mexican Breakfast Quesadilla:** 1 whole wheat tortilla, 1/4 cup shredded cheese, 1/4 cup refried beans, 1/4 cup salsa, 1/2 avocado, 1/4 cup chopped cilantro, 1/4 cup cubed mango (610 calories)
3. **Mediterranean Breakfast Smoothie:** 1/2 cup plain yogurt, 1/2 cup frozen berries, 1/4 cup almond milk, 1 tablespoon chia seeds, 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon, 1/4 cup diced pineapple, 1 tablespoon almond butter (550 calories)
4. **American Breakfast Sandwich:** 1 egg (scrambled), 2 slices whole wheat bread, 1/4 cup cooked sausage, 1/4 avocado, 1/4 cup spinach, 1/4 cup diced tomato (600 calories)

**Snack (Average Price: $1.00, Average Calories: 200-300):**

1. **Congolese Banana with Peanut Butter:** 1/2 cup sliced banana, 2 tablespoons peanut butter (280 calories)
2. **Mexican Fruit Salad:** 1/2 cup chopped mango, 1/4 cup diced pineapple, 1/4 cup strawberries, 1/4 cup raspberries (250 calories)
3. **Mediterranean Hummus and Veggie Sticks:** 1/4 cup hummus, 1 cup carrot sticks, 1 cup cucumber sticks, 1/4 cup bell pepper slices (220 calories)
4. **American Trail Mix:** 1/4 cup almonds, 1/4 cup pumpkin seeds, 1/4 cup dried cranberries, 1/4 cup dark chocolate chips (290 calories)

**Lunch (Average Price: $4.00, Average Calories: 600-700):**

1. **Congolese Chicken and Plantain Stew:** 4 ounces grilled chicken, 1 cup cooked plantains, 1/2 cup cooked black-eyed peas, 1/4 cup chopped cilantro, 1/4 cup salsa (650 calories)
2. **Mexican Chicken and Bean Burrito Bowl:** 4 ounces grilled chicken, 1/2 cup cooked brown rice, 1/4 cup black beans, 1/4 cup corn, 1/4 cup salsa, 1/4 avocado, 1/4 cup chopped cilantro, 1/4 cup diced tomatoes (700 calories)
3. **Mediterranean Tuna Salad Sandwich:** 4 ounces canned tuna (in water), 1/4 cup chopped celery, 1/4 cup chopped cucumber, 1/4 cup chopped red onion, 2 tablespoons plain yogurt, 2 slices whole wheat bread (680 calories)
4. **American Turkey and Veggie Wrap:** 4 ounces sliced turkey, 1/4 cup spinach, 1/4 cup shredded carrots, 1/4 cup bell pepper slices, 1/4 cup diced tomato, 1 whole wheat tortilla (630 calories)

**Dinner (Average Price: $6.00, Average Calories: 700-800):**

1. **Congolese Fish and Plantain:** 6 ounces grilled fish (salmon or tilapia), 1 cup cooked plantains, 1/2 cup sauteed spinach with garlic, 1/4 cup chopped peanuts (750 calories)
2. **Mexican Beef Tacos:** 4 ounces ground beef, 2 corn tortillas, 1/4 cup salsa, 1/4 cup chopped cilantro, 1/4 cup shredded lettuce, 1/4 avocado, 1/4 cup diced tomatoes (720 calories)
3. **Mediterranean Salmon with Roasted Vegetables:** 6 ounces grilled salmon, 1 cup roasted vegetables (broccoli, bell peppers, zucchini), 1/4 cup quinoa, 1/4 cup feta cheese (780 calories)
4. **American Chicken Stir-Fry:** 4 ounces chicken breast, 1 cup mixed vegetables (broccoli, carrots, snap peas), 1/2 cup cooked brown rice, 1/4 cup soy sauce, 1/4 cup chopped peanuts (710 calories)

**Notes on the Meal Plan:**

* **Diversity:** The meal plan incorporates a variety of cuisines, textures, and flavors to keep things interesting and to ensure P30 gets a variety of nutrients.
* **Price:** The plan aims to stay within the $190 weekly budget, utilizing affordable ingredients and minimizing waste.
* **Flexibility:** This is a general plan, and P30 can adjust it based on his preferences and available ingredients.
* **New Foods:** P30 is encouraged to explore new foods within the listed meal options, substituting different fruits, vegetables, and proteins based on his preferences.

**Additional Tips for Weight Gain:**

* **Increase calorie intake gradually:** Don't try to add too many calories at once. Start by adding an extra 200-300 calories per day and increase gradually as needed.
* **Prioritize protein:** Make sure to include protein in every meal to support muscle growth and repair.
* **Don't skip meals:** Eating regular meals will help keep your metabolism high and prevent overeating later.
* **Hydrate well:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* **Listen to your body:** Pay attention to your hunger and fullness cues. 
* **Consult a healthcare professional:** It is recommended P30 consult a registered dietitian or healthcare professional for a personalized plan based on his individual needs and goals.

This personalized dietary plan provides a comprehensive framework for P30 to achieve his weight gain goals while maintaining a healthy and enjoyable eating pattern. With mindful adjustments, this plan can be customized to meet his specific needs and preferences. 
