## P3's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Participant Summary:** P3 is an 18-year-old Asian female, residing in India, who practices Hinduism. She is currently maintaining a healthy weight (BMI = 18.5) and enjoys an active lifestyle with 67.5 minutes of walking and biking six days a week.  P3 is open to trying new foods and enjoys sweet, sour, and umami flavors with crunchy, creamy, and tender textures.  She prefers Thai, Chinese, and Mexican cuisines and avoids beef.  

**Dietary Needs:** P3 is not restricted by vegetarianism, veganism, halal, or kosher guidelines. Her diet should be balanced with a variety of nutrient-rich foods, focusing on fresh produce, lean proteins, whole grains, and healthy fats. Since P3 is open to new cuisines, her diet can incorporate dishes from different cultures.  

**Activity Notes:** P3 should aim to maintain her current activity levels, increasing them further to further improve her overall health and fitness. She can explore different forms of exercise like yoga, swimming, or joining a dance class. 

**Budget:** P3 has a budget of $70 per week for food, allowing for a healthy and diverse diet.

**Meal Plan:** P3 will consume two meals per day, with a focus on diversity and flavor. Here are four diverse options for each meal, with an approximate price and calorie count:

**Breakfast (Calories: 400-500, Price: $2-3)**

1. **Thai Coconut Rice Porridge:** Coconut milk-based porridge with jasmine rice, topped with fresh mango, shredded coconut, and a drizzle of honey. (Calories: 450, Price: $2.50)
2. **Chinese Sesame-Ginger Tofu Scramble:**  Scrambled tofu with sesame oil, ginger, garlic, and chopped vegetables like spinach, mushrooms, and onions.  Served with a side of whole-grain toast. (Calories: 480, Price: $2.75)
3. **Indian Spiced Chickpea and Spinach Omelet:**  Omelet made with chickpeas, spinach, turmeric, coriander, and cumin, served with a side of whole-wheat toast and a cup of mango lassi. (Calories: 420, Price: $2.25)
4. **Mexican Huevos Rancheros:**  Two fried eggs topped with salsa, avocado, and refried beans, served with corn tortillas. (Calories: 490, Price: $3)

**Lunch (Calories: 500-600, Price: $3-4)**

1. **Thai Green Curry Noodle Bowl:**  Rice noodles with a creamy green curry sauce, chicken, tofu, and an assortment of vegetables. (Calories: 550, Price: $3.50)
2. **Chinese Stir-Fried Beef and Broccoli with Brown Rice:**  Tender beef strips stir-fried with broccoli and a soy-ginger sauce, served with a side of brown rice. (Calories: 580, Price: $4)
3. **Indian Lentil Soup with Vegetable Samosa:**  A hearty lentil soup with turmeric, cumin, and coriander, served with a vegetable samosa. (Calories: 520, Price: $3.25)
4. **Mexican Chicken and Black Bean Tacos:**  Two soft corn tortillas filled with grilled chicken, black beans, salsa, avocado, and sour cream. (Calories: 570, Price: $3.75)

**Nutritional Information:**

**Food Item** | **Calories** | **Carbohydrates (g)** | **Sugars (g)** | **Protein (g)** | **Fat (g)** | **Sodium (mg)** | **Cholesterol (mg)**
------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | --------
Coconut Milk (1/2 cup) | 160 | 10 | 7 | 1 | 15 | 20 | 0
Jasmine Rice (1/2 cup) | 100 | 20 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0
Mango (1/2 cup) | 60 | 15 | 13 | 1 | 0 | 1 | 0
Shredded Coconut (1/4 cup) | 80 | 10 | 7 | 1 | 5 | 10 | 0
Honey (1 tbsp) | 60 | 17 | 17 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0
Tofu (1/2 cup) | 80 | 2 | 1 | 8 | 4 | 10 | 0
Sesame Oil (1 tbsp) | 120 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 14 | 0 | 0
Ginger (1 tsp) | 4 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0
Garlic (1 clove) | 4 | 1 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0
Spinach (1 cup) | 40 | 4 | 1 | 5 | 0 | 80 | 0
Mushrooms (1/2 cup) | 20 | 3 | 1 | 2 | 0 | 1 | 0
Onion (1/4 cup) | 25 | 5 | 3 | 1 | 0 | 5 | 0
Whole-Grain Toast (1 slice) | 70 | 15 | 1 | 3 | 1 | 100 | 0
Chickpeas (1/2 cup) | 160 | 26 | 3 | 7 | 3 | 20 | 0
Turmeric (1/2 tsp) | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0
Coriander (1/2 tsp) | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0
Cumin (1/2 tsp) | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0
Eggs (2) | 160 | 1 | 0 | 12 | 10 | 140 | 186
Salsa (1/4 cup) | 20 | 4 | 3 | 1 | 0 | 100 | 0
Avocado (1/4) | 80 | 3 | 0 | 2 | 7 | 6 | 0
Refried Beans (1/2 cup) | 110 | 18 | 1 | 7 | 3 | 300 | 0
Corn Tortillas (2) | 120 | 27 | 1 | 2 | 2 | 150 | 0
Rice Noodles (1 cup) | 220 | 48 | 0 | 4 | 0 | 10 | 0
Green Curry Paste (2 tbsp) | 40 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 3 | 150 | 0
Chicken (3 oz) | 110 | 0 | 0 | 20 | 4 | 70 | 75
Tofu (1/2 cup) | 80 | 2 | 1 | 8 | 4 | 10 | 0
Brown Rice (1/2 cup) | 110 | 24 | 0 | 2 | 0 | 0 | 0
Lentils (1 cup) | 230 | 40 | 4 | 18 | 1 | 10 | 0
Vegetable Samosa (1) | 200 | 20 | 3 | 4 | 10 | 200 | 0
Soft Corn Tortillas (2) | 120 | 27 | 1 | 2 | 2 | 150 | 0
Sour Cream (1 tbsp) | 25 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 2 | 60 | 5

**Notes:**

* All prices are approximate and may vary based on location and availability.
*  This meal plan provides a good source of protein, fiber, vitamins, and minerals.
*  P3 should ensure she consumes a variety of foods from different food groups to obtain all the essential nutrients.
*  The calorie count for each meal can be adjusted depending on her activity level and individual needs.
*  P3 can incorporate her preferred flavors and textures into each meal option by experimenting with different ingredients and cooking methods.

**This diet plan is a starting point, and P3 can adjust it based on her preferences, dietary needs, and budget. Consulting with a registered dietitian is recommended for personalized guidance.** 
