## Amelie's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Gain weight and increase activity levels while exploring new cuisines.

**Budget:** $50 per week (approximately $7.14 per day)

**Meal Frequency:** 3 meals per day

**Calorie Goal:**  This will be adjusted based on your individual needs and activity levels. We'll start with a calorie surplus of 200-300 per day.

**Activity:** 52.5 minutes of walking, 5 days per week. Aim for more active days and potentially incorporate activities you enjoy, such as swimming, dancing, or biking, for a more diverse workout routine.

**Note:** This plan prioritizes variety, affordability, and healthy options. You can adjust portions and swap out ingredients based on your preferences.

**Breakfast (250-300 calories, approximately $2.00)**

* **Option 1:** Japanese Tamagoyaki (Sweet Egg Omelette): A fluffy egg omelette with a sweet savory flavor. It's a popular breakfast in Japan, often served with rice. (approx. $2.50)
* **Option 2:**  Avocado Toast with Smoked Salmon: Toasted whole-wheat bread topped with mashed avocado and smoked salmon. This is a popular brunch choice that's both flavorful and nutritious. (approx. $3.50)
* **Option 3:** Oatmeal with Berries and Nuts: A classic and customizable breakfast. Add your favorite berries, nuts, and a drizzle of honey or maple syrup. (approx. $1.50)
* **Option 4:**  Filipino Silog: This is a popular Filipino breakfast dish consisting of garlic fried rice, a fried egg, and a protein like longganisa (Filipino sausage) or tapa (cured beef). (approx. $2.00)

**Lunch (400-450 calories, approximately $3.00)**

* **Option 1:**  Chicken Teriyaki Bowl: A simple and satisfying bowl with grilled chicken, steamed rice, and a teriyaki sauce. Experiment with different vegetables like broccoli, carrots, or bell peppers. (approx. $3.00)
* **Option 2:**  Chicken Caesar Salad with Whole-wheat Croutons: A classic lunch option with grilled chicken, crisp romaine lettuce, parmesan cheese, and a creamy Caesar dressing. (approx. $3.50)
* **Option 3:**  Tuna Salad Sandwich on Whole-wheat Bread: A light and protein-rich option. Combine canned tuna, mayonnaise, celery, and onion for a flavorful salad. (approx. $2.00)
* **Option 4:**  Filipino Adobo: A traditional Filipino dish of pork or chicken simmered in soy sauce, vinegar, garlic, and peppercorns. (approx. $2.50)

**Dinner (500-550 calories, approximately $4.00)**

* **Option 1:**  Spaghetti with Meatballs and Marinara Sauce: A classic Italian dish. Use whole-wheat spaghetti and lean ground beef for a healthier option. (approx. $4.00)
* **Option 2:**  Salmon with Roasted Vegetables: A delicious and healthy dinner option. Bake salmon with your favorite vegetables like asparagus, broccoli, or bell peppers. (approx. $4.50)
* **Option 3:**  Chicken Stir-fry with Brown Rice: A versatile dish where you can mix and match your favorite vegetables and protein. (approx. $3.00)
* **Option 4:**  Filipino Kare-kare: A rich and flavorful stew made with peanut sauce, oxtail, vegetables, and shrimp paste. (approx. $3.50)

**Snacks (Optional, 100-150 calories, approximately $1.00)**

* **Option 1:**  Fruit: Apples, bananas, oranges, grapes, or berries are great options.
* **Option 2:**  Yogurt with Granola: Greek yogurt is a good source of protein, and granola provides a crunch.
* **Option 3:**  Trail Mix: Combine nuts, seeds, and dried fruit for a healthy and satisfying snack.
* **Option 4:**  Hard-boiled Eggs: A good source of protein and easy to prepare.

**Tips:**

* Experiment with different cuisines. Explore Japanese, Chinese, and Italian dishes to broaden your culinary experience.
* Don't be afraid to ask for modifications at restaurants.
* Make your own lunch or dinner at least a few times per week to save money and have more control over ingredients.
* Stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water throughout the day.
* Remember to listen to your body and adjust your intake as needed.

**Note:** This is a suggested plan and can be customized to your preferences and dietary needs. Consulting a registered dietitian or nutritionist can help you create a more personalized plan. 
