## Amelie's Personalized Dietary Plan: Gain Weight & More Activity

Amelie is an 18-year-old female, 5'2" tall and weighing 100 pounds. Her goal is to gain weight and increase her activity level. She enjoys sweet, salty, sour, and umami tastes, prefers crunchy, creamy, chewy, smooth, tender, and gelatinous textures, has a moderate spice tolerance, and is very open to trying new foods. She enjoys Japanese, Chinese, and Italian cuisines.

This plan focuses on providing Amelie with a calorie surplus to help her gain weight, along with nutrient-rich foods to support her overall health. It incorporates her taste preferences and offers options outside her US/Filipino cultural background to encourage exploration. The plan is budget-conscious and aims to be easily accessible.

**Approximate Weekly Budget:** $50

**Approximate Daily Calorie Range:** 1800-2200 (adjust as needed)

**Activity Notes:** Amelie currently walks for 52.5 minutes, 5 days a week. To increase activity, she can gradually add short bursts of high-intensity exercise, such as running or jumping jacks, for 10-15 minutes on 2-3 days a week.

**Meal Options:**

**Breakfast (Approx. 400-500 calories)**

1. **Japanese-Inspired Oatmeal:**
    * 1/2 cup cooked brown rice (150 calories)
    * 1/4 cup rolled oats (100 calories)
    * 1/2 cup milk (70 calories)
    * 1/4 cup blueberries (25 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped almonds (60 calories)
    * 1 tsp honey (25 calories)
    * Optional: Sprinkle with toasted sesame seeds for crunch.
    * Price: ~$1.50
2. **Sweet and Crunchy French Toast:**
    * 2 slices whole-wheat bread (150 calories)
    * 1 egg (70 calories)
    * 1/4 cup milk (35 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped bananas (60 calories)
    * 1 tsp cinnamon (5 calories)
    * Optional: Drizzle with maple syrup for added sweetness.
    * Price: ~$1.00
3. **Creamy Avocado Toast:**
    * 2 slices whole-wheat bread (150 calories)
    * 1/4 avocado (60 calories)
    * 1/4 cup feta cheese (80 calories)
    * 1/4 cup cherry tomatoes (15 calories)
    * Optional: Add a sprinkle of red pepper flakes for a spicy kick.
    * Price: ~$1.50
4. **Chinese-Inspired Egg Scramble:**
    * 2 eggs (140 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped spinach (7 calories)
    * 1/4 cup shredded carrots (20 calories)
    * 1 tbsp soy sauce (10 calories)
    * Optional: Add a dash of sesame oil for extra flavor.
    * Price: ~$1.00

**Lunch (Approx. 500-600 calories)**

1. **Japanese-Inspired Rice Bowl:**
    * 1 cup cooked brown rice (240 calories)
    * 3 oz grilled salmon (120 calories)
    * 1/2 cup edamame (120 calories)
    * 1/4 cup shredded carrots (20 calories)
    * 1/4 avocado (60 calories)
    * Optional: Top with a drizzle of sesame oil and soy sauce for flavor.
    * Price: ~$3.00
2. **Creamy Italian Pasta Salad:**
    * 1 cup cooked whole wheat pasta (200 calories)
    * 1/2 cup chopped broccoli (25 calories)
    * 1/4 cup cherry tomatoes (15 calories)
    * 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese (80 calories)
    * 2 tbsp olive oil (120 calories)
    * 1 tbsp balsamic vinegar (10 calories)
    * Optional: Add a sprinkle of oregano and a pinch of red pepper flakes.
    * Price: ~$2.00
3. **Spicy Chinese Noodle Soup:**
    * 1 cup cooked noodles (200 calories)
    * 1 cup vegetable broth (20 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped tofu (50 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped mushrooms (15 calories)
    * 1 tbsp soy sauce (10 calories)
    * 1 tsp chili oil (40 calories)
    * Optional: Add a few drops of sesame oil for extra flavor.
    * Price: ~$1.50
4. **Hearty Chicken Wrap:**
    * 1 whole-wheat tortilla (100 calories)
    * 3 oz grilled chicken breast (100 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped lettuce (5 calories)
    * 1/4 cup shredded carrots (20 calories)
    * 1 tbsp hummus (30 calories)
    * Optional: Add a squeeze of lemon juice for a tangy flavor.
    * Price: ~$2.00

**Dinner (Approx. 600-700 calories)**

1. **Japanese-Inspired Salmon with Rice:**
    * 4 oz grilled salmon (160 calories)
    * 1 cup cooked brown rice (240 calories)
    * 1/2 cup steamed broccoli (25 calories)
    * 1/4 cup stir-fried mushrooms (30 calories)
    * Optional: Serve with a side of miso soup for added flavor and warmth.
    * Price: ~$4.00
2. **Creamy Chicken and Vegetable Pasta:**
    * 1 cup cooked whole-wheat pasta (200 calories)
    * 3 oz grilled chicken breast (100 calories)
    * 1/2 cup chopped broccoli (25 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped bell peppers (20 calories)
    * 1/4 cup shredded mozzarella cheese (80 calories)
    * 1 tbsp olive oil (120 calories)
    * Optional: Add a sprinkle of parmesan cheese for extra flavor.
    * Price: ~$3.00
3. **Sweet and Sour Chinese Pork:**
    * 3 oz pork tenderloin (120 calories)
    * 1/2 cup cooked brown rice (120 calories)
    * 1/4 cup pineapple chunks (40 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped bell peppers (20 calories)
    * 1 tbsp soy sauce (10 calories)
    * 1 tbsp sweet and sour sauce (30 calories)
    * Optional: Garnish with sesame seeds for a crunchy touch.
    * Price: ~$3.00
4. **Hearty Italian Meatball Subs:**
    * 2 slices whole-wheat bread (150 calories)
    * 2 meatballs (150 calories)
    * 1/4 cup marinara sauce (50 calories)
    * 1/4 cup mozzarella cheese (80 calories)
    * Optional: Add a few lettuce leaves for freshness.
    * Price: ~$2.50

**Snack Options (Approx. 100-200 calories):**

1. **Japanese Rice Crackers:**
    * 1/2 cup rice crackers (150 calories)
    * 1 tbsp peanut butter (100 calories)
    * Price: ~$0.50
2. **Creamy Greek Yogurt Parfait:**
    * 1/2 cup plain Greek yogurt (100 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped fruit (50 calories)
    * 1/4 cup granola (100 calories)
    * Price: ~$1.00
3. **Sweet and Spicy Chinese Dumplings:**
    * 4 dumplings (200 calories)
    * 1 tbsp soy sauce (10 calories)
    * Optional: Dip in a mixture of soy sauce and chili oil for a spicy kick.
    * Price: ~$1.50
4. **Savory Almond Butter and Apple Slices:**
    * 1 medium apple (80 calories)
    * 2 tbsp almond butter (190 calories)
    * Price: ~$0.75

**Key Notes:**

* Amelie should aim to consume a variety of foods from each food group to ensure she gets the nutrients she needs.
* This meal plan offers flexibility; Amelie can adjust it based on her preferences and needs.
* She should pay attention to portion sizes and adjust calorie intake if needed based on her weight gain progress.
* Hydration is crucial for health; she should aim to drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* Gradually increasing activity levels through walking and incorporating some high-intensity exercises can further support her weight gain and overall fitness goals.
* Consult with a healthcare professional or registered dietitian for personalized dietary advice and guidance.