## Personalized Dietary Plan for Andrea Susantio

**Background:**

Andrea is an 18-year-old female, Asian-American with a preference for Chinese and American cuisine. She is a Christian and is open to trying new foods. Her current goal is weight loss, and she is willing to increase her activity levels. She enjoys sweet, salty, sour, and umami flavors with crunchy, creamy, chewy, smooth, and tender textures. Andrea has a history of eating disorder not otherwise specified (EDNOS). 

**Dietary Plan (2 meals per day):**

**Breakfast (approx. 300 calories):**

* **Option 1:** Oatmeal with berries and a drizzle of honey (approx. $2.50)
    * **Notes:** Oatmeal is a great source of fiber and complex carbs, berries are packed with antioxidants, and honey adds a touch of sweetness.
* **Option 2:** Scrambled eggs with spinach and whole-wheat toast (approx. $3.00)
    * **Notes:**  Eggs are a good source of protein, spinach is rich in vitamins and minerals, and whole-wheat toast provides fiber. 
* **Option 3:** Greek yogurt with granola and fruit (approx. $3.50)
    * **Notes:** Greek yogurt is a high-protein option, granola adds crunch and healthy fats, and fruit provides vitamins and antioxidants. 
* **Option 4:** Tofu scramble with vegetables and whole-grain toast (approx. $3.00)
    * **Notes:** This is a plant-based option that is high in protein, fiber, and vitamins.

**Lunch (approx. 400 calories):**

* **Option 1:**  Tuna salad sandwich on whole-wheat bread with a side salad (approx. $4.00)
    * **Notes:** Tuna is a good source of protein, whole-wheat bread provides fiber, and the salad adds vegetables and nutrients. 
* **Option 2:**  Chicken stir-fry with brown rice and a side of broccoli (approx. $5.00)
    * **Notes:** Chicken is lean protein, brown rice is a whole grain, and broccoli is a good source of fiber and vitamins. 
* **Option 3:** Quinoa salad with chickpeas, vegetables, and a light vinaigrette (approx. $4.50)
    * **Notes:** This is a vegetarian option that is high in protein, fiber, and vitamins.
* **Option 4:**  Salmon with roasted vegetables and a small sweet potato (approx. $6.00)
    * **Notes:** Salmon is a great source of omega-3 fatty acids, and roasted vegetables provide fiber and vitamins. 

**Activity Notes:**

* Andrea should aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise most days of the week.
*  She can explore new activities like yoga or swimming to further increase her activity levels.
* Walking is a great way to increase activity, and she can incorporate it into her daily routine. 
* Andrea should focus on activities that she enjoys to make exercise more sustainable.

**Additional Recommendations:**

* **Hydration:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* **Mindful Eating:** Pay attention to hunger and fullness cues. 
* **Portion Control:** Use smaller plates and avoid overeating.
* **Healthy Snacking:**  If Andrea experiences hunger between meals, she can opt for healthy snacks like fruits, vegetables, or a small handful of nuts.
* **Professional Support:** It is crucial for Andrea to seek support from a registered dietitian and a therapist specializing in eating disorders to manage her EDNOS.  

**Important Considerations:**

* **EDNOS:**  This plan should be adjusted based on Andrea's individual needs and in collaboration with a healthcare professional.
* **Food Preferences:** Andrea should select meals and snacks that she enjoys to improve adherence. 
* **Cultural Preferences:** The plan includes options that incorporate Andrea's Chinese and American cultural preferences. 
* **New Foods:** Andrea is encouraged to try new foods gradually, exploring various cuisines and flavors.

**This dietary plan is a starting point and should be tailored to Andrea's individual needs and preferences with the guidance of a registered dietitian and a therapist specializing in eating disorders.** 
