## Andrea's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Weight loss and increased physical activity.

**Budget:** $50 per week.

**Notes:** 

* Andrea has a history of disordered eating (EDNOS) so we'll focus on creating a balanced and sustainable plan that promotes healthy habits and a positive relationship with food. 
* This plan emphasizes variety, nutrient density, and satisfying taste preferences.
* Increasing activity levels beyond the current 52.5 minutes per day is encouraged.

**Meals per day:** 2

**Food Preferences:**

* **Tastes:** Sweet, Salty, Sour, Umami
* **Textures:** Crunchy, Creamy, Chewy, Smooth, Tender
* **Spice Tolerance:** 2 
* **Willingness to try new foods:** 4 

**Sample Meal Options:**

**Breakfast (approx. 300 calories):**

1. **Chinese-Inspired Scrambled Eggs:** 2 eggs scrambled with chopped scallions, a sprinkle of sesame oil, and a side of steamed bok choy ($3)
2. **Avocado Toast with Smoked Salmon:** Whole wheat toast topped with mashed avocado, smoked salmon, and a squeeze of lemon ($4)
3. **Greek Yogurt with Berries & Chia Seeds:** Plain Greek yogurt topped with a mix of berries, a sprinkle of chia seeds, and a drizzle of honey ($3)
4. **Oatmeal with Almond Butter and Banana:**  Quick-cooking oats cooked with water, topped with almond butter and sliced banana ($2)

**Dinner (approx. 450 calories):**

1. **Chicken Stir-Fry with Brown Rice:** Stir-fried chicken with broccoli, bell peppers, onions, and ginger-soy sauce. Served over brown rice. ($5)
2. **Salmon with Roasted Vegetables:** Baked salmon with a drizzle of olive oil, lemon juice, and herbs, served with roasted Brussels sprouts and sweet potatoes. ($6)
3. **Lentil Soup with Whole Wheat Bread:** Hearty lentil soup with vegetables, served with a slice of whole wheat bread. ($3)
4. **Shrimp Tacos with Mango Salsa:** Grilled shrimp tacos with lettuce, mango salsa, and a dollop of Greek yogurt. ($6)

**Snacks (optional, approx. 150 calories):**

* **Fruit & Nuts:**  Apple slices with almond butter or a handful of trail mix
* **Hard-Boiled Eggs:** A good source of protein and easily portable
* **Veggie Sticks with Hummus:** Crunchy carrot, cucumber, and celery sticks with a side of hummus
* **Greek Yogurt with Berries:** A refreshing and healthy snack 

**Activities:**

* Increase walking time to at least 30-45 minutes per day. 
* Explore different types of exercise like yoga, swimming, or dance classes.
* Incorporate strength training 2-3 times per week.
* Consider joining a walking group or a fitness class to make activity more social and fun. 

**Important Considerations:**

*  **Hydration:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
*  **Mindful Eating:** Pay attention to hunger and fullness cues. Eat slowly and savor your meals.
*  **Portion Control:** Be mindful of portion sizes. 
*  **Variety:** Aim for a variety of foods from different food groups.
*  **Listen to Your Body:** If you experience any discomfort or changes in your health, consult with a doctor or registered dietitian. 

**Additional Notes:**

* This plan is a starting point and can be customized based on your individual preferences and needs.
* Remember, consistency is key to achieving your goals.  
* Don't be afraid to experiment with new recipes and food combinations.

**Disclaimer:**

This is a general dietary plan and should not be considered medical advice. It is important to consult with a qualified healthcare professional before making any changes to your diet or exercise routine.
