## Arjun Pemmasani's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Background:**

Arjun is an 18-year-old male who is 68 inches tall and weighs 120 pounds. He is Asian and identifies with Indian culture. He follows Hinduism and is not vegetarian. He enjoys sweet, salty, and umami flavors, and prefers crunchy textures. His spice tolerance is high (5/5). He is willing to try new foods and likes Thai, Indian, and American cuisines. He aims to gain weight and maintain his current activity level (gym, walking, and running). 

**Dietary Goals:**

* **Calorie surplus:** To gain weight, Arjun needs a calorie surplus of around 250-500 calories per day. This will vary depending on his activity level and individual metabolism. 
* **Protein:** Aim for 1.2-1.6 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight, which translates to 85-114 grams per day for Arjun. This will support muscle growth and recovery.
* **Carbohydrates:** Consume carbohydrates primarily from whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. Aim for 40-50% of total daily calories from carbohydrates.
* **Fats:** Include healthy fats like olive oil, avocados, nuts, and seeds. Aim for 25-30% of total daily calories from fats.
* **Hydration:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day to stay hydrated and support overall health.
* **Variety:** Include a wide variety of foods from different food groups to ensure adequate intake of essential vitamins and minerals.

**Approximate Meal Prices:**

* **Breakfast:** $3-5
* **Lunch:** $5-7
* **Dinner:** $8-10

**Approximate Calorie Counts:**

* **Breakfast:** 400-500 calories
* **Lunch:** 500-600 calories
* **Dinner:** 600-700 calories

**Notes on Activity:**

* Maintain current activity level: Arjun's current exercise routine is excellent for maintaining his health and fitness.
* Incorporate variety: Consider alternating between different types of workouts (cardio, strength training, HIIT) to keep things interesting and challenge your body.
* Listen to your body: Pay attention to your body's signals and rest when needed. 

**Meal Options:**

**Breakfast:**

* **Option 1:** **Overnight Oats with Mango and Pistachios** (450 calories):  A blend of rolled oats, Greek yogurt, almond milk, chopped mango, and a sprinkle of pistachios.
* **Option 2:** **Indian Scrambled Eggs with Whole-Wheat Toast** (400 calories): Scrambled eggs with diced onions, tomatoes, spinach, and spices like turmeric and cumin served with two slices of whole-wheat toast.
* **Option 3:** **Thai Coconut Pancakes with Pineapple and Berries** (500 calories):  Fluffy pancakes made with coconut milk, flour, and spices, topped with fresh pineapple chunks, berries, and a drizzle of maple syrup.
* **Option 4:** **Smoothie with Banana, Spinach, and Peanut Butter** (400 calories):  A quick and easy smoothie made with frozen banana, spinach, almond milk, and a spoonful of peanut butter.

**Lunch:**

* **Option 1:** **Thai Chicken Salad with Brown Rice** (550 calories):  Shredded chicken, chopped cucumbers, bell peppers, carrots, and a Thai peanut dressing served over brown rice. 
* **Option 2:** **Chickpea Curry with Whole-Wheat Naan** (600 calories): A creamy and flavorful chickpea curry made with coconut milk, onions, tomatoes, ginger, garlic, and spices served with two pieces of whole-wheat naan.
* **Option 3:** **Tuna Salad Sandwich with Avocado and Lettuce** (500 calories):  Tuna salad made with Greek yogurt, Dijon mustard, and chopped celery on two slices of whole-wheat bread topped with sliced avocado and lettuce.
* **Option 4:** **Lentil Soup with a Side of Whole-Wheat Bread** (500 calories): Hearty lentil soup made with vegetable broth, carrots, celery, and spices like cumin and coriander, served with a slice of whole-wheat bread.

**Dinner:**

* **Option 1:** **Salmon with Roasted Vegetables** (650 calories):  Grilled salmon fillet served with roasted asparagus, broccoli, and bell peppers drizzled with olive oil and lemon juice.
* **Option 2:** **Indian Chicken Tikka Masala with Basmati Rice** (700 calories):  Grilled chicken pieces marinated in yogurt and Indian spices served with a creamy tomato-based masala sauce over basmati rice.
* **Option 3:** **Chicken Stir-Fry with Brown Rice** (600 calories):  Stir-fried chicken with broccoli, carrots, bell peppers, onions, and a light soy sauce-based sauce served with a cup of brown rice.
* **Option 4:** **Black Bean Burgers with Sweet Potato Fries** (600 calories):  Vegetarian black bean burgers made with oats, spices, and chopped vegetables served with a side of sweet potato fries.

**Snacks:**

* **Apple slices with peanut butter:** (150 calories)
* **Handful of almonds:** (160 calories)
* **Mixed nuts and seeds:** (150 calories)
* **Greek yogurt with berries:** (150 calories)

**Important Considerations:**

* This plan is just a starting point. Work with a registered dietitian to personalize the plan further based on your individual needs and preferences.
* Be consistent with your eating habits and exercise routine to see results. 
* Don't be afraid to experiment with new foods and recipes! 
* Enjoy the process of learning about healthy eating and how it can improve your well-being. 

Good luck, Arjun!