## Arjun's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Gain weight with a calorie surplus while maintaining current activity levels.

**Budget:** $200 per week

**Note:** This plan provides a variety of options with an emphasis on lean protein, complex carbohydrates, and healthy fats. You can adjust portions based on your hunger and activity levels.  Remember to listen to your body and adjust as needed. 

**Activity:** Continue your current routine of weightlifting 6 days a week, walking, and running. 

**Breakfast (300-400 calories)**

**Option 1:**  Indian Spiced Oatmeal (INR 50/ $0.65)
* 1/2 cup cooked steel cut oats
* 1/4 cup milk (almond/cow)
* 1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
* 1/8 tsp ground cardamom
* 1/8 tsp turmeric
* Pinch of salt
* Toppings: 1/4 cup mixed berries, 1 tbsp chopped nuts

**Option 2:**  Thai Coconut Rice Porridge (THB 50/ $1.40)
* 1/2 cup cooked rice (Jasmine or brown)
* 1/2 cup coconut milk
* 1/4 tsp salt
* 1 tbsp chopped fresh cilantro
* Toppings: 1/4 cup mango slices, 1 tbsp toasted coconut flakes

**Option 3:**  American Whole Wheat Pancakes (USD 3/ $3)
* 1 whole wheat pancake (prepared with 1/4 cup pancake mix)
* 1 tbsp peanut butter
* 1/4 cup sliced banana
* 1/4 cup mixed berries

**Option 4:**  High Protein Omelet (USD 4/ $4)
* 2 eggs
* 1/2 cup chopped vegetables (spinach, bell peppers, onions)
* 1/4 cup chopped cooked chicken breast
* 1/4 cup shredded cheese

**Lunch (400-500 calories)**

**Option 1:**  Indian Lentil Soup with Roti (INR 100/ $1.30)
* 1 cup lentil soup (made with red lentils, spinach, turmeric, ginger)
* 2 whole wheat rotis (Indian flatbread)
* Side of sliced cucumber and tomato

**Option 2:**  Thai Green Curry with Brown Rice (THB 100/ $2.80)
* 1 cup green curry with vegetables and tofu/chicken
* 1/2 cup cooked brown rice

**Option 3:**  American Chicken Salad Sandwich (USD 5/ $5)
* 2 slices whole wheat bread
* 1/2 cup chicken salad (made with shredded chicken, celery, mayo, mustard)
* 1/4 cup mixed greens

**Option 4:**  Tuna Salad with Quinoa (USD 6/ $6)
* 1/2 cup cooked quinoa
* 1/2 cup tuna salad (made with canned tuna, celery, yogurt, lemon juice)
* 1/4 cup sliced cucumber and tomato

**Dinner (500-600 calories)**

**Option 1:**  Indian Chicken Tikka Masala with Rice (INR 150/ $2)
* 1 cup chicken tikka masala (made with boneless, skinless chicken, yogurt, spices)
* 1 cup cooked basmati rice

**Option 2:**  Thai Pad Thai (THB 150/ $4.20)
* 1 cup pad thai (made with rice noodles, tofu/chicken, vegetables, peanut sauce)
* Side of chopped peanuts

**Option 3:**  American Salmon with Roasted Vegetables (USD 8/ $8)
* 4 oz grilled salmon
* 1 cup roasted vegetables (broccoli, carrots, bell peppers)

**Option 4:**  Mediterranean Chicken Skewers with Couscous (USD 10/ $10)
* 4 oz grilled chicken skewers (marinated in lemon, garlic, herbs)
* 1 cup cooked couscous
* 1/4 cup chopped cucumber and tomato

**Snacks (100-200 calories)**

**Options:**

* Fruit (apple, banana, orange, berries)
* Yogurt (Greek or regular, plain or flavored)
* Trail mix (nuts, seeds, dried fruit)
* Protein bar (choose one with minimal added sugar)

**Remember to:**

* Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* Get adequate sleep.
* Manage stress levels.
* Be mindful of your food choices and portion sizes.

**Note:** These are just suggestions, and you can adjust the meals and snacks to your preferences. Explore different cuisines and ingredients to find what you enjoy most. 
