## Daniela Guerra's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Dietary Goals:** Maintain current weight, increase activity levels, and explore new cuisines.

**Budget:** $70 per week (approximately $10 per day)

**Calorie Target:**  1800-2000 calories per day (adjusted for your activity level)

**Activity Recommendations:**  

* **Current activity:** Walking and running (52.5 minutes per day, 5 days a week).
* **Increase activity:** Aim for at least 60 minutes of moderate-intensity activity most days of the week. Consider adding strength training exercises 2-3 times per week.
* **Ideas for increasing activity:**  Join a walking or running group, take up a new sport like swimming or cycling, try an exercise class at the gym or community center. 

**Meal Plan (with approximate price and calorie count):**

**Breakfast (300-400 calories, $2-3)**

**Option 1:**  **Traditional Mexican:** Chilaquiles (corn chips, salsa roja, eggs, cheese, crema)
**Option 2:**  **Global Flavor:**  Avocado Toast with a poached egg and feta cheese (try different spices like cumin or smoked paprika)
**Option 3:** **Quick and Easy:** Overnight Oats with fresh berries and nuts 
**Option 4:**  **Sweet Start:**  Yogurt parfait with granola, fruit, and a drizzle of honey

**Lunch (400-500 calories, $3-4)**

**Option 1:**  **Mexican-Inspired:**  Chicken Fajita salad with mixed greens, black beans, corn, bell peppers, and a lime vinaigrette
**Option 2:**  **Global Flavor:**  Mediterranean Quinoa salad with chickpeas, roasted vegetables, and a lemon-tahini dressing 
**Option 3:** **Quick and Easy:**  Turkey sandwich on whole-wheat bread with lettuce, tomato, and mustard
**Option 4:** **Hearty and Healthy:**  Lentil soup with a side of whole-wheat bread

**Dinner (600-700 calories, $4-5)**

**Option 1:** **Traditional Mexican:**  Tacos with grilled chicken or fish, cilantro, onion, and salsa verde
**Option 2:** **Global Flavor:**  Stir-fried tofu and vegetables with brown rice (try different Asian sauces like soy sauce, ginger, or garlic)
**Option 3:** **Quick and Easy:**  Salmon with roasted broccoli and sweet potato
**Option 4:** **Hearty and Healthy:**  Chicken and vegetable curry with brown rice

**Snacks (100-200 calories, $1-2)**

**Option 1:**  Fruit (apple, banana, berries)
**Option 2:**  Nuts and seeds (almonds, cashews, pumpkin seeds)
**Option 3:**  Yogurt with granola
**Option 4:**  Hard-boiled eggs 

**Notes:**

* This is a sample meal plan, and you can adjust it based on your preferences and dietary needs.
* Choose lean protein sources such as chicken, fish, beans, lentils, tofu, and eggs. 
* Include plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains in your diet.
* Limit processed foods, sugary drinks, and unhealthy fats.
* Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* Consider trying new spices and herbs to add flavor to your meals.
* Explore different cuisines to broaden your palate and enjoy a variety of flavors.
*  Listen to your body and eat when you are hungry. 
*  Pay attention to how different foods make you feel. 

**Remember to consult with a registered dietitian or healthcare professional for personalized dietary advice.** 
