## David's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Maintain current weight & increase activity levels.

**Budget:** $50/week

**Calorie Goal:** Approximately 1800-2000 calories per day (based on your height, weight, and activity level)

**Notes on Activity:** You're doing great with your current activity level! Aim to increase your workout duration or frequency by 1-2 days/week, exploring new activities like jogging, martial arts, or team sports. 

**Meal Breakdown:**

**Breakfast (approx. 400-500 calories)**

**Option 1:**  
* **Zambian Oatmeal Porridge:**  Cooked oatmeal with cinnamon, honey, and fresh berries. (approx. $1.50)
* **Notes:** This is a classic Zambian breakfast, providing energy and fiber. Try adding a sprinkle of nuts for extra crunch and protein.

**Option 2:**
* **Nigerian Akara (Bean Cakes):**  Deep-fried bean fritters with a side of plantains. (approx. $2.00)
* **Notes:** This is a protein-packed and flavorful Nigerian street food. Try it with a spicy pepper sauce for an extra kick.

**Option 3:** 
* **Spicy Indian Omelette:**  Scrambled eggs with onions, peppers, and a touch of turmeric for a vibrant flavor. (approx. $1.00)
* **Notes:** This is a quick and easy breakfast option, packed with protein.  You can add chopped cilantro and chili flakes for extra zing. 

**Option 4:**
* **American Smoothie:** Blend together frozen fruit, yogurt, and almond milk.  (approx. $2.00)
* **Notes:**  This is a great way to get a quick and healthy breakfast on the go. Try adding a scoop of protein powder for added benefits.

**Lunch (approx. 500-600 calories)**

**Option 1:**
* **Mexican Tostada Salad:**  Crispy tostada topped with a medley of fresh vegetables, black beans, grilled chicken or tofu, and a light vinaigrette dressing. (approx. $3.00)
* **Notes:** This is a flavorful and healthy lunch option with a satisfying crunch. You can customize it with your favorite toppings and spices.

**Option 2:**
* **Zambian Nshima (Cornmeal Porridge):**  Thick cornmeal porridge served with stewed greens and a meat or vegetable protein. (approx. $2.50)
* **Notes:** This is a staple dish in Zambia, providing energy and fiber. Try adding a side of peanut sauce for extra flavor.

**Option 3:**
* **Indian Chickpea Curry with Brown Rice:**  A fragrant and flavorful curry made with chickpeas, vegetables, and spices, served over brown rice. (approx. $3.00)
* **Notes:** This is a vegetarian lunch option that is both delicious and nutritious. You can adjust the spiciness to your preference.

**Option 4:**
* **Tuna Salad Sandwich:**  Grilled whole-wheat bread with tuna salad, lettuce, tomato, and a light mayo dressing. (approx. $2.00)
* **Notes:** This is a classic lunch option that is packed with protein and healthy fats. You can try making your own tuna salad with Greek yogurt for a lighter and healthier option.

**Dinner (approx. 600-700 calories)**

**Option 1:**
* **Nigerian Jollof Rice:**  Spicy rice dish with tomatoes, onions, bell peppers, and your choice of protein. (approx. $3.00)
* **Notes:** This is a colorful and vibrant dish with a flavorful blend of spices. You can add chicken, beef, or fish for protein.

**Option 2:**
* **Zambian Chicken Stew with Nshima:**  Tender chicken simmered in a savory stew with tomatoes, onions, and spices, served over cornmeal porridge. (approx. $3.50)
* **Notes:** This is a classic Zambian dish that is both comforting and satisfying. Try adding a side of green beans or spinach for extra nutrients. 

**Option 3:**
* **Thai Green Curry:**  A fragrant and flavorful curry made with coconut milk, green chilies, lemongrass, and your choice of protein, served over brown rice or quinoa. (approx. $3.50)
* **Notes:** This is a delicious and healthy dinner option with a unique flavor profile. You can adjust the spiciness to your preference. 

**Option 4:**
* **Mediterranean Salmon with Roasted Vegetables:**  Grilled salmon served with a side of roasted vegetables like broccoli, carrots, and zucchini. (approx. $4.00)
* **Notes:** This is a healthy and delicious dinner option that is packed with protein and omega-3 fatty acids. You can use a variety of seasonings to add flavor to the salmon and vegetables.

**Snacks:**  (Optional - add snacks as needed to meet your calorie needs)

* **Fruit:** Apple, banana, grapes, strawberries 
* **Trail Mix:** A mix of nuts, seeds, and dried fruit
* **Yogurt:** Greek yogurt with berries or granola
* **Popcorn:** Air-popped popcorn with a sprinkle of salt or spices


**Remember:** This is a sample plan, and you can adjust it based on your preferences and needs. You can also explore new cuisines and recipes to keep things interesting and maintain a healthy and balanced diet. 

**Enjoy your meals!** 
