## Grant Jackson's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Background:** Grant is an 18-year-old male, 72 inches tall and weighing 145 pounds. He is Black and identifies with American culture. He is Christian and has no relevant medical conditions. Grant enjoys Umami flavors and crunchy textures, with a spice tolerance of 2. He is willing to try new foods (level 1). He wants to gain weight and increase his activity level. He currently engages in gym workouts and basketball twice a week for 37.5 minutes each session. His weekly food budget is $50. 

**Dietary Goal:** Gain weight with a calorie surplus while maintaining a balanced and nutritious diet.

**Meal Frequency:** 3 meals per day.

**Activity Notes:**

* **Increase Activity:** Aim for 3-4 gym sessions and 2-3 basketball games per week. This will help build muscle and increase caloric expenditure.
* **Workout Routine:** Include a variety of exercises targeting different muscle groups for optimal muscle growth and strength. 
* **Warm-up & Cool-down:** Incorporate a 5-10 minute warm-up before each workout and a cool-down afterward to prevent injury and aid recovery.

**Meal Options:**

**Breakfast (Approx. 400-500 calories):**

* **Option 1:**  Scrambled eggs with cheddar cheese and spinach (grilled) served with whole-wheat toast ($2.50)
* **Option 2:** Oatmeal with berries, chopped nuts, and a drizzle of honey ($2.00)
* **Option 3:** Greek yogurt parfait with granola, sliced bananas, and a sprinkle of cinnamon ($3.00)
* **Option 4:** Smoothie with spinach, banana, peanut butter, and almond milk ($3.50)

**Lunch (Approx. 500-600 calories):**

* **Option 1:**  Turkey lettuce wrap with avocado, red onion, and a sprinkle of cumin ($3.00)
* **Option 2:**  Tuna salad sandwich on whole-wheat bread with lettuce and tomato ($3.50)
* **Option 3:**  Lentil soup with a side of whole-wheat bread and a fruit salad ($4.00)
* **Option 4:**  Chicken and vegetable stir-fry with brown rice ($4.50) 

**Dinner (Approx. 600-700 calories):**

* **Option 1:** Baked chicken breast with roasted vegetables (sweet potatoes, broccoli) and a side of quinoa ($5.00)
* **Option 2:** Salmon with roasted asparagus and a side of brown rice ($6.00)
* **Option 3:**  Black bean burgers with sweet potato fries and a side salad ($5.50)
* **Option 4:**  Shrimp and vegetable pasta with whole-wheat spaghetti ($6.50)

**Snacks (Approx. 150-200 calories):**

* **Option 1:**  Apple slices with almond butter ($1.50)
* **Option 2:**  Greek yogurt with berries and a sprinkle of granola ($2.00)
* **Option 3:**  Trail mix with nuts, seeds, and dried fruit ($2.50)
* **Option 4:**  Hard-boiled egg with a side of cheese cubes ($1.00)

**Notes:**

* **Portion Sizes:** Adjust portion sizes based on individual needs and calorie goals. 
* **Dietary Variety:** Choose a variety of foods from each food group to ensure balanced nutrition.
* **Cooking Methods:** Opt for healthier cooking methods like grilling, baking, roasting, and steaming.
* **Hydration:**  Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* **Healthy Fats:** Incorporate healthy fats like avocado, nuts, and olive oil into the diet.
* **Limited Processed Foods:** Minimize the consumption of processed foods, sugary drinks, and unhealthy fats.
* **Cultural Integration:** Incorporate Grant's cultural preferences by using spices, herbs, and ingredients familiar to him.
* **New Foods:** Explore new foods that align with Grant's interest in trying new things, even if they are outside his usual cuisine. For example, he could try a sushi roll or a Thai curry. 
* **Food Budget:** Plan meals and snacks within Grant's $50 budget. Consider buying produce in bulk, using discount coupons, and shopping at affordable grocery stores.

**Important Considerations:**

* **Calorie Tracking:**  Grant may consider tracking his calorie intake for a few weeks to determine his daily calorie needs for weight gain.
* **Professional Guidance:** If Grant encounters difficulties maintaining his dietary plan, seeks to further increase activity, or experiences difficulties, he should consult with a registered dietitian or a healthcare professional for individualized advice and support.

This diet plan is a starting point and can be tailored to Grant's individual preferences and needs. With a focus on healthy eating, increased physical activity, and mindful choices, Grant can achieve his goal of gaining weight in a safe and sustainable way. 
