## Grant Jackson's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Gain weight and increase activity levels.

**Budget:** $50 per week

**Note:** This plan is a guideline and can be adapted based on personal preferences. It includes a variety of nutrient-rich foods and explores new cuisines with a focus on taste and texture preferences.

**Activity:**

* **Current:** 37.5 minutes of gym workout and basketball twice a week.
* **Goal:** Increase to 4-5 days a week, incorporating different activities like running, swimming, or hiking.

**Breakfast (Approx. 400-500 Calories)**

**Option 1:**  Scrambled eggs (2) with spinach and feta cheese (approx. $2.50)
**Option 2:** Overnight oats with berries and nuts (approx. $2.00)
**Option 3:** Whole-wheat toast with peanut butter and banana (approx. $1.50)
**Option 4:** Chicken and avocado wrap with sriracha mayo (approx. $3.00) - Explore Asian flavours with a touch of spice

**Lunch (Approx. 500-600 Calories)**

**Option 1:** Turkey and Swiss cheese sandwich on whole-wheat bread with lettuce and tomato (approx. $3.50)
**Option 2:**  Tuna salad with whole-grain crackers (approx. $2.00)
**Option 3:** Lentil soup with a side of whole-wheat bread (approx. $2.50)
**Option 4:** Chicken Pad Thai with tofu and vegetables (approx. $4.00) -  Introduce a new Asian cuisine with a focus on umami and texture.

**Dinner (Approx. 600-700 Calories)**

**Option 1:** Grilled chicken breast with sweet potato and broccoli (approx. $4.00)
**Option 2:** Salmon with roasted vegetables (approx. $5.00)
**Option 3:** Black bean and corn salsa with brown rice (approx. $3.00)
**Option 4:** Vegetarian Chili with a side of cornbread (approx. $3.50)

**Snacks (Approx. 100-200 Calories)**

*  Fruit (apple, banana, orange) (approx. $1.00)
*  Yogurt with granola (approx. $1.50)
*  Trail mix with nuts and seeds (approx. $1.00)
*  Hard-boiled egg (approx. $0.50)

**Notes:**

* This plan includes a variety of protein sources to support muscle growth and repair.
* Healthy fats are included to provide sustained energy and aid in nutrient absorption.
* Fruits and vegetables provide vitamins, minerals, and fiber.
* Water intake should be adequate throughout the day.
* Adjust portion sizes based on your individual needs and activity levels.
* Consider incorporating more complex carbohydrates, such as quinoa or brown rice, for sustained energy.
* Choose lean protein sources, such as chicken breast, fish, or beans.
* Experiment with different spices and herbs to add flavour and variety to your meals.
* Snacking is encouraged to help maintain energy levels and prevent hunger.

**Food exploration:**

* Try incorporating more spices and herbs into your cooking, such as cumin, coriander, turmeric, and paprika.
* Explore different cuisines, such as Asian, Mediterranean, or Indian, to expand your taste buds.
* Don't be afraid to try new fruits and vegetables, such as mango, pineapple, spinach, or kale.

**Additional tips:**

* Cook at home more often to control portion sizes and ingredients.
* Pack your own lunch and snacks to avoid unhealthy choices.
* Be mindful of your calorie intake and track your progress.
* Be patient and consistent with your efforts.

Remember to listen to your body and adjust the plan as needed. You can always consult a registered dietitian for personalized recommendations. 
