## Herbert's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Gain weight while incorporating new flavors and textures.

**Budget:** $50/week

**Meals per day:** 3

**Approximate Calorie Count:** 2500-2800 per day (for a calorie surplus)

**Activity:** 

* Current activity: 82.5 minutes, 3 days/week (gym, walking dog, swimming)
* Goal: Increase activity to 4-5 days/week, including a mix of cardio and strength training. Consider adding more variety to your workouts, such as group fitness classes or outdoor activities.

**Meal Options:**

**Breakfast (Approx. 500 calories):**

* **Option 1: Salvadoran Pupusas with Avocado (Cost: $3.00)**
    * 2 pupusas (pork or cheese) with 1/4 avocado.
    * **Note:** Pupusas are a traditional Salvadoran dish, a thick corn tortilla filled with various ingredients. You can experiment with different fillings like beans or loroco.
* **Option 2: Overnight Oats with Berries and Nuts (Cost: $2.50)**
    * 1/2 cup rolled oats, 1/2 cup milk, 1/4 cup berries, 1/4 cup nuts, 1 tbsp chia seeds, 1 tbsp honey.
    * **Note:** This is a great option for a quick and healthy breakfast that can be prepared the night before. 
* **Option 3: Greek Yogurt with Honey and Toasted Almonds (Cost: $2.00)**
    * 1 cup Greek yogurt, 1 tbsp honey, 1/4 cup toasted almonds.
    * **Note:**  A great source of protein and calcium, this option offers a creamy texture and a touch of sweetness.
* **Option 4: Japanese Tamagoyaki (Sweet Omelet) with Rice (Cost: $3.50)**
    * 2 eggs, 1 tbsp sugar, 1/2 tsp soy sauce, 1/2 cup rice.
    * **Note:** A delicious and savory Japanese omelet, tamagoyaki is cooked in a thin sheet and rolled up.

**Lunch (Approx. 600 calories):**

* **Option 1: Chicken Fajita Salad with Cilantro Lime Dressing (Cost: $5.00)**
    * Mixed greens, grilled chicken, bell peppers, onions, avocado, cilantro lime dressing. 
    * **Note:**  This is a lighter option for lunch while still providing plenty of protein and healthy fats.
* **Option 2: Black Bean Burgers with Sweet Potato Fries (Cost: $4.50)**
    * 1 black bean burger on a whole-wheat bun, with 1/2 cup sweet potato fries.
    * **Note:**  A vegetarian option with a satisfying crunch.
* **Option 3: Greek Gyros with Tzatziki Sauce (Cost: $4.00)**
    * 1 gyro with a side of tzatziki sauce.
    * **Note:**  A classic Greek dish featuring seasoned meat wrapped in pita bread with a creamy cucumber and yogurt sauce.
* **Option 4: Salmon with Roasted Vegetables (Cost: $6.00)**
    * 4 oz salmon, 1 cup roasted vegetables (broccoli, carrots, Brussels sprouts).
    * **Note:**  A healthy and flavorful option featuring Omega-3 rich salmon with colorful roasted vegetables.

**Dinner (Approx. 700 calories):**

* **Option 1: Salvadoran Pollo a la Plancha with Black Beans and Rice (Cost: $4.50)**
    * Grilled chicken breast, 1 cup black beans, 1 cup rice.
    * **Note:**  A classic Salvadoran dish featuring grilled chicken seasoned with garlic and herbs.
* **Option 2: Shrimp Stir-Fry with Brown Rice (Cost: $5.50)**
    * 6 oz shrimp, 1 cup mixed vegetables, 1 cup brown rice, stir-fried with soy sauce and ginger.
    * **Note:** A quick and flavorful dinner with a mix of textures and flavors.
* **Option 3: Baked Chicken with Roasted Potatoes and Asparagus (Cost: $4.00)**
    * 4 oz baked chicken breast, 1 cup roasted potatoes, 1/2 cup asparagus.
    * **Note:**  A simple and easy option with a combination of protein and vegetables.
* **Option 4: Japanese Miso Soup with Tofu and Vegetables (Cost: $3.00)**
    * 1 bowl of miso soup with tofu, seaweed, and assorted vegetables.
    * **Note:**  A light and flavorful soup, ideal for a warm dinner.

**Snacks (Approx. 200 calories):**

* **Fruit:** apple, banana, pear, orange
* **Yogurt with granola:** 1 cup yogurt, 1/4 cup granola 
* **Nuts and seeds:** trail mix, almonds, walnuts
* **Hard-boiled egg:**  Great source of protein

**Notes:**

* These are just suggestions, feel free to adjust them to your taste preferences and dietary needs.
* Experiment with different ingredients and cooking methods to find new favorite dishes.
* Remember to stay hydrated throughout the day, drinking plenty of water or unsweetened beverages.
* Focus on whole foods, such as fruits, vegetables, lean protein, and whole grains.

**Key Takeaway:** This plan provides a variety of options that will help Herbert gain weight while staying within his budget.  It also incorporates flavors from his preferred cuisines (Hispanic, Japanese, Greek) and offers new experiences through options like the overnight oats or miso soup. By incorporating new ingredients and exploring different dishes, Herbert can further expand his culinary horizons. 
