## Personalized Dietary Plan for Herbert Melgar

**Participant Info:**

* Full Name: Herbert Melgar
* Sex: Male
* Age: 18
* Height: 68 inches
* Weight: 135 pounds
* Race: White, Hispanic or Latino
* Culture: El Salvador, United States
* Religion: Christianity
* Activity: 82.5 minutes per day, 3 days per week (Gym, walking dog, swimming)
* Taste Preferences: Sweet, Salty, Sour, Umami 
* Textural Preferences: Crunchy, Creamy, Chewy, Smooth, Tender
* Spice Tolerance: 3
* Preferred Cuisines: Hispanic, Japanese, Greek
* Food Allergies: None
* Foods to Avoid: None
* Weekly Food Budget: $50.0
* Goal: Gain weight (calorie surplus)
* Goal: More activity
* Meals per Day: 3
* Willingness to try new foods: 3

**Dietary Plan:**

**Note:** This plan emphasizes a variety of nutritious foods to support Herbert's weight gain goal. The calorie counts are approximate and may vary depending on portion sizes and cooking methods. This plan can be adjusted based on Herbert's individual preferences and activity levels.

**Breakfast (350-450 calories)**

**Option 1:**

*  **Chorizo & Egg Burrito (Hispanic):** Scrambled eggs with chorizo, onions, and bell peppers wrapped in a whole-wheat tortilla. ($3.50)
*  **Greek Yogurt with Berries & Granola:** Plain Greek yogurt topped with mixed berries and a sprinkle of granola. ($3.00)
* **Oatmeal with Banana and Peanut Butter:**  Quick-cooking oatmeal topped with sliced banana and a spoonful of peanut butter. ($2.50)
* **Tofu Scramble with Veggies:**  Scrambled tofu with diced bell peppers, onions, spinach, and a dash of turmeric. ($3.00)

**Lunch (500-600 calories)**

**Option 1:**

*  **Chicken Fajita Bowl (Hispanic):** Grilled chicken strips with bell peppers, onions, black beans, brown rice, and a dollop of salsa. ($4.50) 
* **Salmon Teriyaki Bowl (Japanese):** Grilled salmon with teriyaki sauce, steamed brown rice, and mixed greens. ($5.00)
* **Tuna Salad Sandwich (Greek):**  Tuna salad with chopped celery, red onion, and a squeeze of lemon on whole-wheat bread. ($4.00)
* **Lentil Soup with Whole-Wheat Bread:** Hearty lentil soup with vegetables and a side of whole-wheat bread. ($4.00)

**Dinner (650-750 calories)**

**Option 1:**

*  **Shrimp Paella (Spanish):**  Shrimp, chicken, chorizo, rice, peas, and saffron cooked in a flavorful broth. ($7.00)
* **Chicken Yakitori with Stir-fried Veggies (Japanese):**  Grilled chicken skewers with a teriyaki glaze, served with stir-fried broccoli, carrots, and snow peas. ($6.50)
* **Greek Chicken with Lemon Potatoes:**  Roast chicken seasoned with oregano and lemon, served with roasted potatoes and a side of roasted vegetables. ($6.00)
* **Black Bean Burgers with Sweet Potato Fries (Hispanic):**  Homemade black bean burgers served on whole-wheat buns with lettuce, tomato, and avocado. ($5.50)

**Snacks (150-200 calories)**

* **Fruit Salad:** Freshly cut pineapple, mango, and strawberries. ($2.00)
* **Greek Yogurt with Nuts:** Plain Greek yogurt with a sprinkle of almonds and walnuts. ($2.50)
* **Trail Mix:** A combination of almonds, cashews, pumpkin seeds, and dried cranberries. ($2.00)
* **Hard-boiled Eggs:**  Two hard-boiled eggs. ($1.50)

**Activity Notes:**

* **Increase Intensity:**  Herbert should aim to increase the intensity of his workouts. 
* **Workout Frequency:** Try adding one more day of strength training or cardio to his weekly routine. 
* **Variety:**  Explore different forms of exercise to keep things interesting and challenge his body in new ways.
* **Outdoor Activity:** Include more walking or running outdoors to enjoy the fresh air and sunshine.

**Overall:**

This personalized dietary plan provides Herbert with a variety of nutritious foods that support his goal of gaining weight. By incorporating his preferred cuisines and willingness to try new foods, the plan encourages him to explore different flavors while meeting his nutritional needs. Regularly engaging in physical activity will further enhance his weight gain journey and improve his overall health. 

**Remember:** This is just a sample plan. It's essential for Herbert to consult with a healthcare professional or registered dietitian to create a dietary plan tailored to his specific needs and health goals.
