## Personalized Dietary Plan for Huma Shaik

**Based on your preferences and restrictions, here's a 2-meal-per-day plan with approximate pricing and calorie counts:**

**Goal:** Maintain current weight and increase physical activity.

**Activity:** Aim for 37.5 minutes of activity 5 days a week.  Focus on at-home workouts like yoga, bodyweight exercises, or cardio routines.  You can also try incorporating some outdoor walks into your routine.

**Budget:** $50/week

**Meal Options (Halal, Pork-Free):**

**Breakfast (Approx. 300 calories, $3-4):**

1. **Oatmeal with Berries and Nuts:**  
    * 1/2 cup rolled oats, 1/2 cup berries (frozen or fresh), 1/4 cup chopped almonds, 1/2 cup low-fat milk.
    * **International Twist:** Add a pinch of cardamom for an Indian flavor. 
2. **Scrambled Eggs with Spinach and Feta:** 
    * 2 eggs, 1/4 cup spinach, 1/4 cup crumbled feta cheese.
    * **International Twist:** Add some diced tomatoes and a sprinkle of oregano for a Mediterranean flair.
3. **Yogurt Parfait with Fruit and Granola:**
    * 1 cup low-fat yogurt, 1/2 cup fruit (chopped or berries), 1/4 cup granola.
    * **International Twist:** Try adding a tablespoon of chopped dates or a drizzle of honey for a Middle Eastern sweetness.
4. **Fruit and Nut Smoothie:** 
    * 1 cup fruit (banana, berries, mango), 1/2 cup low-fat milk, 1/4 cup nuts. 
    * **International Twist:** Incorporate some turmeric or ginger for an Asian-inspired flavor.

**Lunch (Approx. 400 calories, $5-6):**

1. **Chicken and Lentil Soup:**  
    * 1 cup cooked chicken, 1 cup cooked lentils, 2 cups vegetable broth, 1/2 cup chopped vegetables (carrots, celery, onions).
    * **International Twist:** Add a tablespoon of tomato paste and a pinch of cumin for a Middle Eastern touch.
2. **Grilled Chicken Salad with Quinoa:**
    * 4 oz grilled chicken breast, 1/2 cup cooked quinoa, 1 cup mixed greens, 1/4 cup vegetables (cucumbers, bell peppers, tomatoes), 2 tablespoons dressing (vinaigrette or light yogurt-based).
    * **International Twist:** Try using a lemony tahini dressing for a Middle Eastern twist.
3. **Turkey and Veggie Wrap:**
    * 3 oz sliced turkey breast, 1/4 cup hummus, 1/2 cup chopped vegetables (lettuce, spinach, carrots), whole-wheat tortilla.
    * **International Twist:** Add a sprinkle of sumac for a Middle Eastern flavor profile. 
4. **Chickpea and Veggie Curry:** 
    * 1 cup cooked chickpeas, 1 cup chopped vegetables (onions, potatoes, cauliflower), 1/2 cup coconut milk, curry powder.
    * **International Twist:** Use a blend of Indian spices like turmeric, cumin, and coriander for a more authentic flavor. 

**Notes:**

* **Hydration:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day. 
* **Portion Control:** Be mindful of portion sizes to maintain your current weight.
* **Variety:** Try new foods and experiment with different flavor combinations. You can explore cuisines like Indian, Middle Eastern, or Mediterranean to broaden your culinary horizons.
* **Food Preparation:** Cook at home as much as possible to control ingredients and cost. 
* **Meal Planning:** Plan your meals ahead of time to avoid unhealthy choices. 

**Remember to consult with a healthcare professional or registered dietitian for personalized dietary advice.** 
