## Huma Shaik's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Maintain current weight (110 lbs) and increase physical activity.

**Budget:** $50 per week, split between two meals per day.

**Dietary Restrictions:** Halal, no pork

**Meal Plan:**

**Breakfast (Approx. 300 calories)**

* **Option 1:**  Oatmeal with berries and almonds (Halal) - $2.50
    *  1/2 cup cooked oatmeal (plain) - 150 calories 
    *  1/4 cup mixed berries (frozen) - 30 calories
    *  1/4 cup sliced almonds - 120 calories
* **Option 2:** Scrambled eggs with spinach and halloumi cheese (Halal) - $3.00
    *  2 eggs (scrambled) - 140 calories
    *  1 cup spinach (cooked) - 40 calories
    *  1 oz halloumi cheese - 120 calories
* **Option 3:**  Yogurt parfait with granola and fruit (Halal) - $2.00
    *  1 cup plain yogurt (Greek) - 100 calories
    *  1/4 cup granola - 120 calories
    *  1/2 cup chopped fruit (e.g., banana, mango) - 60 calories 
* **Option 4:**  Chickpea and vegetable frittata - $2.50
    * 1 cup chopped vegetables (e.g., onions, bell peppers, zucchini) - 50 calories
    * 1/2 cup cooked chickpeas - 160 calories
    * 2 eggs (beaten) - 140 calories

**Dinner (Approx. 400 calories)**

* **Option 1:**  Chicken stir-fry with brown rice (Halal) - $4.00
    * 4 oz grilled chicken breast - 140 calories
    * 1 cup stir-fry vegetables (e.g., broccoli, carrots, snap peas) - 100 calories 
    * 1/2 cup brown rice (cooked) - 160 calories 
* **Option 2:**  Lentil soup with naan bread (Halal) - $3.00
    *  1 cup lentil soup (homemade or canned) - 200 calories
    *  1 piece naan bread (whole wheat) - 150 calories 
* **Option 3:**  Salmon with roasted vegetables (Halal) - $4.50
    *  4 oz grilled salmon - 200 calories
    *  1 cup roasted vegetables (e.g., sweet potato, asparagus, Brussels sprouts) - 100 calories
* **Option 4:**  Falafel wraps with hummus and tahini (Halal) - $3.50
    * 2 falafel (made with chickpeas) - 200 calories
    * 2 tbsp hummus - 100 calories
    * 1 pita bread - 150 calories
    * 1 tbsp tahini - 100 calories

**Notes:**

* This meal plan provides a balanced diet with a variety of nutrients and flavors, while staying within your budget and adhering to your dietary restrictions. 
* Feel free to adjust the portion sizes based on your individual needs and preferences.
* These are just examples, and you can substitute ingredients based on what you enjoy and have available.
* **Cultural Exploration:** The dinner options offer a blend of Indian flavors (naan bread, lentils) and international dishes like falafel and salmon.  
* **Spice Tolerance:**  This plan incorporates mild to moderate spice levels. 
* **Taste and Textural Preferences:** The plan includes various options for sweet, salty, crunchy, chewy, and smooth textures.
* **Halal Compliance:** All recipes provided are halal-compliant. 

**Activity:**

* You currently engage in 37.5 minutes of exercise per day for 5 days a week. 
* Aim to gradually increase your activity to at least 45 minutes per day, 5 days a week. This can include:
    * **At-home workouts:** Explore online fitness videos or apps for various exercises like yoga, Pilates, bodyweight training, or HIIT.
    * **Walking:**  Increase your daily walking time by 15 minutes.
    * **Cycling:** If possible, incorporate cycling into your routine.
    * **Swimming:**  If you have access to a pool, swimming is a great low-impact exercise option.

**Important Reminder:** This plan is a guideline, and you should consult with a healthcare professional before making any significant changes to your diet or exercise routine. They can provide personalized recommendations based on your specific needs and health status. 
