## Ira's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Maintain current weight and activity level

**Budget:** $110 per week

**Meals per day:** 3

**Activity:** 97.5 minutes per day, 5 days a week, including walking, swimming, and treadmill.

**Notes:**

* This plan is designed to be balanced and provide you with the energy you need for your active lifestyle while maintaining your current weight. 
* You are willing to try new foods, so this plan includes some international options alongside familiar Filipino dishes.
* This plan does not include nuts or peanuts due to your allergy.
* Please be aware that these are approximate costs and calorie counts and may vary based on your location and specific choices.

**Breakfast (300-350 calories, $2-3)**

**Option 1:**

* **Sinangag (Garlic Fried Rice)** (1 cup, $1) - A Filipino staple, you can use brown rice for added fiber and a lower glycemic index.
* **Scrambled Eggs with Tomato and Onion** (2 eggs, $1) - A classic, filling option.
* **Fresh Mango** (1/2 cup, $1) - A sweet and refreshing start to your day.

**Option 2:**

* **Oatmeal with Berries and Nuts (Except Peanuts)** (1/2 cup oats, $1) - A healthy and filling option, substitute nuts with sunflower seeds or pumpkin seeds for similar texture and benefits.
* **Greek Yogurt with Honey** (1 cup, $2) - Adds protein and calcium.
* **Banana** (1 medium, $0.50) - Provides potassium and energy.

**Option 3:**

* **Pancit Canton (Stir-fried Noodles)** (1 cup, $2) -  A popular Filipino noodle dish, choose a lower-sodium version.
* **Fried Tofu with Sweet and Sour Sauce** (1/2 cup, $1) - A flavorful and protein-rich option.
* **Side of Fresh Fruits** (1/2 cup, $1) - A refreshing and nutritious addition.

**Option 4:**

* **Avocado Toast with Egg** (1 slice whole-wheat toast, $1) - A trendy and healthy option, rich in healthy fats and protein.
* **Side of Grilled Chicken Breast** (3 oz, $1.50) - A lean protein source for energy.
* **Fresh Fruit Salad** (1 cup, $1) - A colorful and vibrant addition.


**Lunch (400-450 calories, $3-4)**

**Option 1:**

* **Adobo (Chicken or Pork)** (4 oz, $3) - A classic Filipino dish with a savory and tangy flavor, cooked with soy sauce, vinegar, and garlic.
* **Brown Rice** (1/2 cup, $1) - Provides complex carbohydrates for sustained energy.
* **Mixed Greens Salad with Lemon Vinaigrette** (1 cup, $1) - A refreshing and nutritious side.

**Option 2:**

* **Chicken Caesar Salad Wrap** (1 large, $4) - A satisfying and portable option.
* **Fruit Salad** (1 cup, $1) - Provides vitamins and antioxidants.

**Option 3:**

* **Sushi (Tuna or Salmon)** (6 pieces, $4) - A flavorful and healthy option, introduce yourself to Japanese cuisine!
* **Edamame** (1/2 cup, $1) - A healthy and protein-rich snack, you can try adding this to your meals.

**Option 4:**

* **Lentil Soup with Whole Wheat Bread** (1 cup, $3) - A hearty and flavorful option, rich in fiber and protein.
* **Side of Fruit** (1/2 cup, $1) - A sweet and refreshing addition.

**Dinner (500-550 calories, $4-5)**

**Option 1:**

* **Lechon Kawali (Crispy Pork Belly)** (4 oz, $4) - A delicious and flavorful Filipino dish, enjoy in moderation.
* **Steamed Vegetables** (1 cup, $1) - A nutritious and low-calorie side.
* **Brown Rice** (1/2 cup, $1) - A source of complex carbohydrates.

**Option 2:**

* **Salmon with Roasted Vegetables** (4 oz salmon, $4) - A healthy and flavorful dinner option, rich in omega-3 fatty acids.
* **Sweet Potato Fries** (1/2 cup, $1) - A healthier alternative to traditional fries.

**Option 3:**

* **Chicken Stir-fry with Brown Rice** (4 oz chicken, $3) - A quick and easy dinner option, use a variety of vegetables for flavor and nutrients.
* **Side of Mango** (1/2 cup, $1) - A sweet and tangy dessert.

**Option 4:**

* **Pasta with Pesto and Grilled Chicken** (1 cup pasta, $3) - A flavorful and comforting option, choose whole-wheat pasta for added fiber.
* **Side of Green Salad** (1 cup, $1) - A refreshing and healthy addition.

**Snacks (100-150 calories, $1-2)**

* **Fruit** (Apple, Banana, Mango, etc.) - A healthy and refreshing snack option.
* **Yogurt Parfait** - A delicious and nutritious combination of yogurt, granola, and fruit.
* **Hard-boiled Eggs** - A protein-rich and filling snack.
* **Trail Mix (without Nuts)** - A mix of seeds, dried fruits, and pretzels, for a satisfying snack.

**Important Notes:**

* This is a sample plan and can be adjusted based on your preferences and needs.
* Be sure to drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* Don't be afraid to experiment with new foods and flavors.
* Listen to your body and eat when you're hungry and stop when you're full.
* Consult a registered dietitian or nutritionist for personalized guidance.

Enjoy your delicious and healthy meals!