## Ira Gerome Somosot Simpao's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Participant Info:**

* Full Name: Ira Gerome Somosot Simpao
* Sex: Male
* Age: 18
* Height: 67 inches
* Weight: 145 pounds
* Race: Asian
* Culture: Philippines
* Religion: Christianity
* Activity: 97.5 minutes/day, 5 days/week, walking, swimming, treadmill
* Allergies: Peanuts, nuts
* Taste Preferences: Sour, Umami (Savoury)
* Textural Preferences: Smooth, Tender, Gelatinous
* Spice Tolerance: 3 
* Preferred Cuisine: Filipino
* Willingness to try new foods: 5
* Budget: $110.0/week
* Goal: Maintain weight, activity level

**Notes on Activity:** 

* You are engaging in a great amount of activity, which is crucial for maintaining your weight and overall health. Keep it up! 
* Aim to incorporate some strength training exercises alongside your cardio workouts to build muscle and increase your metabolism. This can be as simple as bodyweight exercises a few times a week.

**Meal Plan (3 meals/day):**

**Breakfast (Approximate Calorie Count: 400 - 500)**

* **Option 1:**  **Filipino Adobo-Style Oatmeal** (approx. $2.50) -  Cook oatmeal with coconut milk and a dash of soy sauce. Top with diced chicken adobo (prepared with vinegar, soy sauce, and garlic) and a sprinkle of chopped green onions.
* **Option 2:** **Smoothie with Banana and Peanut-Free Nut Butter** (approx. $2.00) - Blend together a banana, milk, peanut-free nut butter (almond or cashew), spinach, and a splash of lime juice. 
* **Option 3:** **Pancakes with Berries and Peanut-Free Nut Butter** (approx. $3.00) - Prepare pancakes with a peanut-free nut butter and egg replacement (like flaxseed or applesauce). Top with a generous serving of fresh berries.
* **Option 4:** **Scrambled Egg Whites with Tomato and Spinach** (approx. $1.50) - Scrambled egg whites with chopped tomatoes and spinach. Serve with a side of whole-grain toast or a small fruit salad.

**Lunch (Approximate Calorie Count: 500 - 600)**

* **Option 1:** **Filipino Chicken Pancit** (approx. $4.00) - A stir-fry with thin noodles, shredded chicken, vegetables (carrots, cabbage, bok choy), and a peanut-free sauce (soy sauce, fish sauce, oyster sauce). 
* **Option 2:** **Tuna Salad Sandwich on Whole-Wheat Bread** (approx. $3.50) -  Tuna salad with chopped celery, red onion, and a squeeze of lemon juice, on whole-wheat bread. Add a side of sliced bell peppers and cucumbers.
* **Option 3:** **Lentil Soup with a Side of Salad** (approx. $2.50) -  A hearty lentil soup with vegetables (carrots, onions, celery), and a side salad with spinach, tomatoes, and a light vinaigrette.
* **Option 4:** **Quinoa Salad with Grilled Tofu and Avocado** (approx. $4.00) - Quinoa salad with grilled tofu, avocado, and a tangy dressing made with lime juice, olive oil, and cilantro. 

**Dinner (Approximate Calorie Count: 600 - 700)**

* **Option 1:** **Filipino Sinigang** (approx. $5.00) - A sour soup with pork or seafood, vegetables (bok choy, green beans, eggplant), and a broth made with tamarind or guava. 
* **Option 2:** **Salmon with Roasted Vegetables** (approx. $6.00) -  Grilled or baked salmon with roasted vegetables (broccoli, bell peppers, sweet potatoes). Serve with a side of brown rice.
* **Option 3:** **Chickpea Curry with Brown Rice and Naan** (approx. $4.50) - Chickpea curry with vegetables (onions, garlic, ginger, tomatoes, and spinach), served with brown rice and a piece of naan bread. 
* **Option 4:** **Pasta with Pesto, Grilled Chicken, and Tomatoes** (approx. $5.00) - Whole-wheat pasta with a homemade pesto sauce, grilled chicken breast, and chopped tomatoes. 

**Snacks:**

* Fruit (apple, banana, berries, orange) - $1.00
* Peanut-free nut butter and whole-grain crackers - $1.50
* Yogurt with fruit - $2.00 
* Trail mix with seeds and dried fruit - $2.50

**Additional Considerations:**

* **Hydration:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day. Aim for 8 glasses or more.
* **Food Safety:** Remember to always check labels for nuts and peanuts, and be mindful of cross-contamination when eating out. 
* **Variety:**  It's important to eat a variety of foods within each food group to ensure you are getting all the nutrients you need.
* **Filipino Flavors:** Feel free to incorporate other Filipino dishes into your meal plan, focusing on lean proteins, whole grains, and plenty of vegetables.

This meal plan is a guideline and can be adjusted to meet your individual preferences and needs. Remember to listen to your body and adjust portions as needed. You can also consult a registered dietitian for personalized advice.  
