## Mariska's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Lose weight (calorie deficit) and increase activity.

**Budget:** $90 per week, aiming for approximately $11.25 per day.

**Meal Frequency:** 2 meals per day.

**Notes on Activity:** You are currently engaging in 90 minutes of activity per week (22.5 minutes x 4 days).  To support your weight loss goal and overall health, aim to increase your activity to at least 150 minutes per week (30 minutes x 5 days). This could involve:

* **Walking:** Increase your walks to class, exploring longer routes or incorporating more brisk walking segments.
* **Joining a Fitness Class:**  Consider a beginner-friendly fitness class like Zumba, yoga, or Pilates.
* **Finding a Walking Buddy:**  Walking with a friend can make it more enjoyable and motivating.

**Meal Options (Calorie range: 400-600 per meal):**

**Breakfast (400-500 calories)**

* **Option 1: Tanzanian Breakfast Bowl (450 calories, $3.50)**
    * 1 cup cooked quinoa (160 calories)
    * 1/2 cup chopped mango (60 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped cashews (160 calories)
    * 1 tbsp honey (60 calories)
    * 1 tsp cinnamon (5 calories)
* **Option 2:  Scrambled Eggs with Spinach and Feta (480 calories, $4.00)**
    * 2 eggs (140 calories)
    * 1/2 cup spinach (10 calories)
    * 1/4 cup crumbled feta (100 calories)
    * 1 slice whole wheat toast (70 calories)
* **Option 3:  Oatmeal with Berries and Nuts (420 calories, $3.00)**
    * 1/2 cup rolled oats (150 calories)
    * 1/2 cup mixed berries (60 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped almonds (160 calories)
    * 1/2 cup low-fat milk (60 calories)
* **Option 4:  Avocado Toast with Smoked Salmon (450 calories, $5.00)**
    * 1 slice whole wheat toast (70 calories)
    * 1/2 avocado (160 calories)
    * 2 oz smoked salmon (120 calories)
    * 1/4 tsp everything bagel seasoning (5 calories)

**Lunch (500-600 calories)**

* **Option 1:  Chicken and Chickpea Curry with Brown Rice (550 calories, $5.00)**
    * 1 cup cooked brown rice (220 calories)
    * 1 cup chicken and chickpea curry (250 calories) 
    * 1/2 cup mixed greens (15 calories)
    * 1 tbsp yogurt (50 calories)
* **Option 2:  Tuna Salad Sandwich with Whole Wheat Bread (520 calories, $4.00)**
    * 2 slices whole wheat bread (140 calories)
    * 1/2 can tuna in water (120 calories)
    * 1/4 cup chopped celery (10 calories)
    * 1 tbsp light mayonnaise (50 calories)
    * 1/4 cup mixed greens (15 calories)
* **Option 3:  Lentil Soup with Whole Wheat Bread (500 calories, $3.50)**
    * 1 cup lentil soup (250 calories)
    * 2 slices whole wheat bread (140 calories)
    * 1/2 cup mixed greens (15 calories)
    * 1 tbsp olive oil (120 calories)
* **Option 4:  Chicken and Vegetable Stir-fry with Brown Rice (580 calories, $5.50)**
    * 1 cup cooked brown rice (220 calories)
    * 1 cup chicken and vegetable stir-fry (250 calories) 
    * 1 tbsp sesame oil (120 calories)
    * 1/4 cup soy sauce (40 calories)

**Notes:**

* Choose one option for each meal.
* You can adjust portions to meet your calorie needs.
* Make sure to drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* Focus on whole, unprocessed foods, including fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, and whole grains.
*  Don't hesitate to experiment with new spices and flavors. You can find delicious recipes from around the world, including Tanzanian, Mexican, Indian, Japanese, and American cuisines. 
* Be mindful of your portion sizes to ensure you're eating within your calorie goals.
* Consider incorporating more snacks throughout the day if you feel hungry between meals. Opt for healthy options like fruits, vegetables, or nuts.

**Remember:** This is just a starting point, and you may need to adjust it based on your individual needs and preferences. Consult with a registered dietitian or your doctor for personalized advice.