## Personalized Dietary Plan for Mariska Msumi

**Background:**

* **Goal:** Lose weight (calorie deficit)
* **Budget:** $90/week 
* **Meals per day:** 2 
* **Activity:** 22.5 minutes, 4 days/week, walking to class 
* **Cultural preferences:**  Mexican, Indian, Japanese, Tanzanian, and American cuisines. Open to trying new foods. 
* **Dietary restrictions:**  Halal, no pork, and oyster allergy. 

**Estimated Calorie Needs:** 

To determine Mariska's exact calorie needs, we need to consider her current weight and activity level.  However, for this plan, we'll estimate a calorie deficit of about 500 calories per day, aiming for around 1500 calories total.  This is a general starting point, and we'll adjust as needed. 

**Meal Options:** 

**Breakfast (450-550 calories):**

**Option 1: Tanzanian  Oatmeal with Mango and Cashew Butter (480 calories)**

* 1/2 cup cooked oatmeal (150 calories)
* 1/2 cup diced mango (50 calories)
* 1 tablespoon cashew butter (190 calories)
* 1/4 cup chopped walnuts (100 calories)
* *Notes:*  This breakfast provides a good balance of carbohydrates, protein, and healthy fats.  It also includes mango, a fruit commonly consumed in Tanzania.  Consider swapping cashew butter for peanut butter if Mariska prefers that. 

**Option 2: Indian Vegetable Omelet with Whole Wheat Toast (500 calories)**

* 2 scrambled eggs (140 calories)
* 1/2 cup chopped onion (15 calories)
* 1/2 cup chopped bell pepper (30 calories)
* 1/4 cup chopped spinach (7 calories)
* 1 teaspoon garam masala (5 calories)
* 2 slices whole wheat toast (140 calories)
* *Notes:* A flavorful and easy omelet with a touch of Indian spices.  Swap spinach for other vegetables if preferred.

**Option 3: Japanese Yogurt Parfait with Berries and Almonds (480 calories)**

* 1 cup plain yogurt (100 calories)
* 1/2 cup mixed berries (50 calories)
* 1/4 cup granola (150 calories)
* 1/4 cup sliced almonds (100 calories)
* *Notes:*  This parfait combines Japanese yogurt with a familiar American-style parfait.  

**Option 4: American-style  Smoothie with Banana and Spinach (520 calories)**

* 1 cup frozen fruit (150 calories)
* 1/2 cup milk (120 calories)
* 1 banana (105 calories)
* 1 cup spinach (20 calories)
* 1 tablespoon peanut butter (190 calories)
* *Notes:*  A classic, easy-to-make smoothie that can be adjusted with different fruits and nut butters.  

**Lunch (750-850 calories):**

**Option 1: Mexican Black Bean Tacos with Brown Rice (800 calories)**

* 2 corn tortillas (140 calories)
* 1/2 cup black beans (110 calories)
* 1/4 cup salsa (25 calories)
* 1/4 cup diced onion (15 calories)
* 1/4 cup diced tomato (15 calories)
* 1/4 avocado (65 calories)
* 1 cup brown rice (230 calories)
* *Notes:*  This option is a classic Mexican dish with a good amount of protein and fiber.  

**Option 2:  Japanese Salmon Bowl with Brown Rice and Edamame (780 calories)**

* 4 oz grilled salmon (180 calories)
* 1 cup brown rice (230 calories)
* 1/2 cup edamame (120 calories)
* 1 tablespoon soy sauce (10 calories)
* 1/4 avocado (65 calories)
* *Notes:*  A flavorful and healthy Japanese-inspired bowl with salmon and edamame. 

**Option 3:  Indian Chicken Curry with Naan Bread (820 calories)**

* 4 oz chicken breast (140 calories)
* 1/2 cup chicken curry (250 calories)
* 1/2 cup brown rice (115 calories)
* 1 naan bread (200 calories)
* *Notes:*  A flavorful and satisfying Indian curry with a good balance of protein and carbohydrates. 

**Option 4: American Turkey  and Veggie Wrap with  Side Salad (750 calories)**

* 1 whole wheat tortilla (120 calories)
* 4 oz sliced turkey (120 calories)
* 1/2 cup chopped vegetables (50 calories)
* 1/4 cup hummus (100 calories)
* 1 cup side salad (100 calories)
* *Notes:*  A quick and easy wrap with a side salad, offering a good balance of protein and fiber.

**Activity:**

* **Current Activity:**  Mariska's current walking to class is a good start, but we need to encourage more movement. 
* **Recommendations:** 
    * **Walk more:**  Aim for at least 30 minutes of brisk walking most days of the week. 
    * **Add strength training:**  Include 2-3 days of strength training, using bodyweight exercises, free weights, or resistance bands.  This will help with building muscle mass and increasing metabolism. 
    * **Find activities you enjoy:**  Explore activities that interest Mariska, like swimming, dancing, hiking, or joining a sports team. 

**Important Notes:**

* **Hydration:**  Mariska should drink plenty of water throughout the day, aiming for 8 glasses or more. 
* **Variety:** It's essential to include variety in her diet to ensure she's getting all the nutrients she needs.
* **Listen to your body:** Mariska should pay attention to how her body feels and adjust her diet and activity levels as needed. 
* **Consult a professional:** If Mariska has any health concerns or wants more personalized guidance, she should consult with a registered dietitian or a doctor. 

**This dietary plan is a starting point and should be adjusted based on Mariska's individual needs and preferences.** 
