## Omar's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Gain weight with a calorie surplus while incorporating diverse cuisines and increasing physical activity.

**Budget:** $70 per week

**Note:** This plan provides a variety of options to accommodate Omar's diverse cultural influences and willingness to try new foods. He can choose one option per meal, keeping in mind the calorie counts and adjusting portions as needed for desired calorie intake. 

**Activity Recommendations:**

* **Increase walking:** Aim for 45 minutes of brisk walking on your active days.
* **Explore gym routines:** Try strength training exercises 2-3 times a week.
* **Join a fitness class:** Consider group fitness classes like Zumba or Yoga for a fun and social experience.

**Meal Breakdown:**

**Breakfast (300-400 calories):**

* **Option 1:** **Foul medames (Egyptian)** -  A classic Egyptian breakfast of fava beans, chickpeas, garlic, lemon juice, and olive oil. **Price:** $2.50 | **Calories:** 350
* **Option 2:** **Oatmeal with Berries and Nuts (International)** -  Quick and healthy, topped with blueberries, strawberries, almonds, and a drizzle of honey. **Price:** $3.00 | **Calories:** 400
* **Option 3:** **Shakshuka (Turkish/North African)** -  Eggs poached in a tomato sauce with peppers, onions, and spices.  **Price:** $3.50 | **Calories:** 380
* **Option 4:** **Banana Pancakes (American)** -  Fluffy pancakes made with mashed bananas, flour, and milk. **Price:** $2.00 | **Calories:** 350

**Lunch (500-600 calories):**

* **Option 1:** **Chicken Shawarma (Lebanese/Turkish)** -  Marinated chicken slices, grilled and served in a pita bread with hummus, tahini, and vegetables. **Price:** $6.00 | **Calories:** 550
* **Option 2:** **Lentil Soup (Indian/Middle Eastern)** -  Hearty and protein-rich lentil soup with spices, vegetables, and a side of rice. **Price:** $4.50 | **Calories:** 500
* **Option 3:** **Tuna Salad Sandwich (American)** -  Classic tuna salad sandwich with lettuce, tomato, and a whole-wheat bread. **Price:** $4.00 | **Calories:** 520
* **Option 4:** **Falafel Pita (Middle Eastern)** -  Fried chickpeas and herbs served in pita bread with tahini sauce, hummus, and vegetables. **Price:** $5.00 | **Calories:** 580

**Dinner (600-700 calories):**

* **Option 1:** **Koshari (Egyptian)** -  A popular Egyptian dish of rice, macaroni, lentils, and chickpeas topped with a spicy tomato sauce and a drizzle of vinegar. **Price:** $5.50 | **Calories:** 650
* **Option 2:** **Chicken Tikka Masala (Indian)** -  Tender chicken pieces marinated in yogurt and spices, cooked in a creamy tomato sauce. **Price:** $7.00 | **Calories:** 680
* **Option 3:** **Salmon with Roasted Vegetables (International)** -  Grilled salmon served with roasted asparagus, broccoli, and bell peppers. **Price:** $8.00 | **Calories:** 620
* **Option 4:** **Beef and Broccoli Stir-Fry (Chinese)** -  A classic stir-fry with beef, broccoli, carrots, and soy sauce. **Price:** $6.50 | **Calories:** 600

**Snacks (100-200 calories):**

* **Fruits:** Apples, bananas, oranges, grapes
* **Yogurt:** Greek yogurt with fruit and granola
* **Trail Mix:** Nuts, seeds, dried fruits
* **Hummus with Vegetables:** Carrots, cucumbers, celery

**Notes:**

* This plan is a starting point and can be adjusted based on Omar's individual preferences and calorie needs.
* Omar can experiment with different combinations of meals and snacks to create variety and adjust calorie intake. 
* Encourage Omar to explore new cuisines and experiment with flavors and textures outside his comfort zone.
* Monitor progress and adjust the plan as needed to optimize weight gain and activity levels. 
