## Omar Hamza's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Background:** Omar is an 18-year-old male, 5'10" tall and weighing 130 pounds. He identifies as White and Black, with Egyptian, Indian, Turkish, and American cultural influences. He is Muslim and avoids pork. He is open to trying new foods and enjoys sweet, salty, sour, and umami tastes. He prefers crunchy, creamy, chewy, smooth, tender, and fibrous textures and has a spice tolerance of 4. He is aiming to gain weight and increase physical activity. His budget is $70 per week for food, and he prefers three meals a day. 

**Goals:**

* **Gain weight:** Aim for a calorie surplus of 500 calories per day.
* **Increase physical activity:** Gradually increase his current activity level.

**Notes on Activity:**

*  Omar currently walks on campus and occasionally goes to the gym.
*  Encourage him to gradually increase his activity by:
    *  Walking more frequently on campus, perhaps incorporating longer walks.
    *  Adding more days at the gym, gradually increasing the duration and intensity of workouts.
    *  Exploring new activities like swimming, biking, or group fitness classes to make exercising more enjoyable.

**Meal Plan:**

**Breakfast (approx. 400 calories, $3-4 per meal)**

* **Option 1:** Scrambled eggs with cheddar cheese and diced tomatoes, served with a side of whole-wheat toast and a banana. (Crunchy, Creamy, Tender, Sweet, Salty)
* **Option 2:** Oatmeal with almond milk, chopped dates, and a sprinkle of cinnamon. (Chewy, Creamy, Sweet)
* **Option 3:** Chickpea and spinach omelet with feta cheese, served with a side of avocado toast. (Crunchy, Creamy, Tender, Savory)
* **Option 4:** Tofu scramble with bell peppers and onions, served with a side of whole-grain English muffin and a glass of orange juice. (Crunchy, Creamy, Sweet, Savory)

**Lunch (approx. 500 calories, $4-5 per meal)**

* **Option 1:** Chicken shawarma wrap with tahini sauce, hummus, and mixed greens, served with a side of fruit salad. (Crunchy, Creamy, Chewy, Sweet, Savory)
* **Option 2:** Lentil soup with whole-wheat bread and a side of Greek yogurt. (Smooth, Creamy, Tender, Savory)
* **Option 3:** Quinoa salad with chickpeas, grilled chicken, and a lemon-tahini dressing. (Crunchy, Creamy, Savory)
* **Option 4:** Salmon with roasted vegetables (broccoli, carrots, bell peppers) and a sprinkle of lemon zest. (Tender, Crunchy, Savory)

**Dinner (approx. 600 calories, $5-6 per meal)**

* **Option 1:**  Chicken tikka masala with basmati rice and a side of raita (yogurt sauce). (Chewy, Creamy, Smooth, Sweet, Savory)
* **Option 2:**  Beef and vegetable stew with barley and a dollop of Greek yogurt. (Tender, Smooth, Savory)
* **Option 3:**  Falafel pita with hummus, tahini sauce, and a mixed green salad. (Crunchy, Creamy, Chewy, Savory)
* **Option 4:**  Spaghetti squash with marinara sauce and a side of grilled chicken. (Chewy, Tender, Savory)

**Snacks (approx. 150-200 calories, $1-2 per snack):**

* **Option 1:** Apple slices with almond butter. (Crunchy, Creamy, Sweet)
* **Option 2:**  Mixed nuts and dried fruit. (Crunchy, Chewy, Sweet)
* **Option 3:**  Plain Greek yogurt with a sprinkle of cinnamon. (Creamy, Sweet)
* **Option 4:**  Hard-boiled egg. (Tender, Savory)

**Key considerations:**

* **Variety:** Omar should strive for a varied diet across all food groups, ensuring he gets a broad range of nutrients. 
* **Hydration:**  Encourage him to drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* **Portion Control:**  Omar should pay attention to portion sizes to manage his calorie intake.
* **Meal Prep:** Prepare meals ahead of time to make healthy eating easier and save money.
* **New Food Exploration:** Omar should continue to explore new foods, especially those from different cultures, to broaden his dietary horizons and experience new flavors.

**This plan is a starting point, and Omar can customize it based on his preferences and dietary needs. He should consult with a registered dietitian or other healthcare professional for personalized guidance and advice.** 
