## Personalized Dietary Plan for P13

**Participant Summary:**

P13 is an 18-year-old Hispanic female who is 5 feet tall and weighs 100 pounds. She identifies with Mexican culture and enjoys sweet and sour flavors with crunchy, chewy, and smooth textures. P13 has a moderate spice tolerance and is willing to try new foods. She is not vegetarian or vegan and has no dietary restrictions or allergies. She engages in 52.5 minutes of physical activity for 5 days per week, primarily walking and running, and aims to increase her activity levels. Her goal is to maintain her current weight. 

**Dietary Needs:**

P13 requires a balanced diet that provides adequate nutrients for her age, activity level, and weight maintenance. This includes:

* **Protein:** Adequate protein intake is essential for muscle growth and repair, especially given her active lifestyle. 
* **Carbohydrates:** Provide energy for physical activity and brain function.  A balance of complex carbohydrates (whole grains) and simple carbohydrates (fruits) is recommended.
* **Healthy Fats:** Promote satiety and provide essential fatty acids for overall health. 
* **Vitamins and Minerals:** Support various bodily functions, including energy metabolism, bone health, and immune function.

**Activity Notes:**

P13 should continue engaging in walking and running activities to maintain her current fitness level. She should gradually increase the duration or intensity of her workouts to achieve her goal of becoming more active. This could include adding interval training or incorporating strength training exercises for improved muscle mass and overall fitness.

**Budget:**

P13 has a budget of $70 per week for groceries. This allows for purchasing a variety of nutritious foods, including some fresh produce and lean protein sources. By prioritizing staples and meal planning, she can maximize her budget while ensuring a diverse and healthy diet.


**Meal Plan Options:**

**Breakfast (Approximate calorie count: 400-500):**

* **Option 1: Overnight Oats with Berries and Nuts:** 
    * 1/2 cup rolled oats (150 calories, 14g carbs, 4g protein, 3g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 cup unsweetened almond milk (30 calories, 1g carbs, 1g protein, 2.5g fat, 10mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/4 cup mixed berries (40 calories, 10g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 2mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1 tbsp chopped walnuts (70 calories, 4g carbs, 4g protein, 5g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 2: Scrambled Eggs with Avocado and Spinach:**
    * 2 large eggs (160 calories, 6g carbs, 12g protein, 11g fat, 125mg sodium, 200mg cholesterol)
    * 1/4 avocado (50 calories, 3g carbs, 2g protein, 4g fat, 4mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1 cup chopped spinach (7 calories, 1g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 30mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 3: Whole-Wheat Toast with Peanut Butter and Banana:** 
    * 2 slices whole-wheat toast (150 calories, 30g carbs, 7g protein, 1g fat, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 2 tbsp peanut butter (190 calories, 6g carbs, 8g protein, 16g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 banana (50 calories, 14g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 4:  Mexican Chilaquiles:** 
    * 1/2 cup corn tortilla chips (150 calories, 18g carbs, 2g protein, 7g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 cup salsa (25 calories, 5g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1 egg (70 calories, 0.5g carbs, 6g protein, 5g fat, 60mg sodium, 180mg cholesterol)
    * 1/4 cup crumbled queso fresco (70 calories, 2g carbs, 6g protein, 5g fat, 100mg sodium, 20mg cholesterol)

**Lunch (Approximate calorie count: 450-550):**

* **Option 1: Tuna Salad Sandwich on Whole-Wheat Bread:**
    * 2 slices whole-wheat bread (150 calories, 30g carbs, 7g protein, 1g fat, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 can tuna in water (80 calories, 0g carbs, 20g protein, 2g fat, 100mg sodium, 30mg cholesterol)
    * 1 tbsp light mayonnaise (50 calories, 0g carbs, 1g protein, 5g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 cup mixed greens (7 calories, 1g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 30mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/4 cup cucumber (8 calories, 2g carbs, 0g protein, 0g fat, 2mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 2:  Chicken Fajita Salad with Avocado Dressing:**
    * 4 oz grilled chicken breast (140 calories, 0g carbs, 30g protein, 4g fat, 80mg sodium, 80mg cholesterol)
    * 1 cup mixed greens (7 calories, 1g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 30mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 cup bell peppers (25 calories, 6g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 5mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/4 cup onions (15 calories, 4g carbs, 0g protein, 0g fat, 2mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1 tbsp avocado dressing (60 calories, 2g carbs, 0g protein, 6g fat, 45mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 3:  Black Bean Soup with Cornbread:**
    * 1 cup black bean soup (120 calories, 20g carbs, 10g protein, 1g fat, 200mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1 slice cornbread (120 calories, 20g carbs, 2g protein, 2g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 4:  Sushi Bowl with Salmon, Avocado, and Brown Rice:**
    * 1/2 cup cooked brown rice (100 calories, 22g carbs, 3g protein, 0g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 4 oz salmon (140 calories, 0g carbs, 30g protein, 4g fat, 80mg sodium, 80mg cholesterol)
    * 1/4 avocado (50 calories, 3g carbs, 2g protein, 4g fat, 4mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/4 cup soy sauce (10 calories, 0g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 900mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Dinner (Approximate calorie count: 500-600):**

* **Option 1:  Shrimp and Veggie Stir-Fry with Brown Rice:**
    * 4 oz cooked shrimp (100 calories, 0g carbs, 20g protein, 1g fat, 100mg sodium, 80mg cholesterol)
    * 1 cup mixed vegetables (50 calories, 10g carbs, 3g protein, 0g fat, 40mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 cup cooked brown rice (100 calories, 22g carbs, 3g protein, 0g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1 tbsp soy sauce (10 calories, 0g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 900mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1 tsp sesame oil (40 calories, 0g carbs, 0g protein, 4g fat, 0mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 2:  Chicken Enchiladas with Black Beans and Salsa:**
    * 4 oz shredded chicken breast (140 calories, 0g carbs, 30g protein, 4g fat, 80mg sodium, 80mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 cup black beans (120 calories, 20g carbs, 10g protein, 1g fat, 200mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 cup salsa (25 calories, 5g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 2 corn tortillas (120 calories, 24g carbs, 2g protein, 2g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 3:  Lentil Soup with Grilled Cheese:**
    * 1 cup lentil soup (150 calories, 25g carbs, 12g protein, 1g fat, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 2 slices whole-wheat bread (150 calories, 30g carbs, 7g protein, 1g fat, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1 slice cheddar cheese (100 calories, 1g carbs, 7g protein, 8g fat, 170mg sodium, 25mg cholesterol)
* **Option 4:  Beef Tacos with Cilantro Lime Rice:**
    * 4 oz ground beef (200 calories, 0g carbs, 20g protein, 15g fat, 75mg sodium, 70mg cholesterol)
    * 2 corn tortillas (120 calories, 24g carbs, 2g protein, 2g fat, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
    * 1/2 cup cilantro lime rice (150 calories, 30g carbs, 2g protein, 1g fat, 5mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Snacks (Approximate calorie count: 100-150):**

* **Option 1:  Mixed Nuts:** 1/4 cup mixed nuts (160 calories, 6g carbs, 6g protein, 14g fat, 10mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 2:  Apple with Peanut Butter:** 1 medium apple (100 calories, 25g carbs, 0g protein, 0g fat, 5mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol) and 1 tbsp peanut butter (100 calories, 3g carbs, 4g protein, 8g fat, 50mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol) 
* **Option 3: Greek Yogurt with Berries:** 1/2 cup Greek yogurt (100 calories, 6g carbs, 10g protein, 0g fat, 100mg sodium, 5mg cholesterol) and 1/4 cup berries (40 calories, 10g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 2mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **Option 4:  Popcorn:** 1 cup air-popped popcorn (30 calories, 6g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 1mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Additional Tips:**

* **Drink Plenty of Water:** Water is essential for hydration and can help you feel fuller between meals. Aim for 8 glasses per day.
* **Prioritize Whole Foods:** Focus on consuming whole, unprocessed foods whenever possible.
* **Cook at Home:** This allows you to control the ingredients and portion sizes in your meals.
* **Read Food Labels:** Check the nutritional content of packaged foods to make informed choices.
* **Be Mindful of Sodium:** Many packaged foods are high in sodium; opt for low-sodium options whenever possible. 
* **Experiment with New Foods:** Try incorporating foods from different cultures to expand your dietary repertoire. 

**Important Note:**

This dietary plan is a starting point and may need to be adjusted based on your individual needs and preferences. It’s always a good idea to consult with a registered dietitian for personalized dietary advice. 
