## P18 Personalized Dietary Plan

**Participant Summary:**

P18 is an 18-year-old female of Asian descent, identifying with Chinese and American cultures. She is a Christian and reports a history of eating disorder not otherwise specified (EDNOS). P18 enjoys sweet, salty, sour, and umami flavors and prefers crunchy, creamy, chewy, smooth, and tender textures. She has a spice tolerance of 2. Her goal is to lose weight through a calorie deficit and increase physical activity. She is very willing to try new foods.

**Dietary Needs:**

P18's dietary needs are focused on weight loss and a balanced diet, considering her history of EDNOS. The plan should include a variety of nutrient-dense foods with a calorie deficit, while emphasizing healthy eating habits and avoiding restrictive practices. It is crucial to prioritize her enjoyment of food and encourage mindful eating.

**Activity Notes:**

P18 engages in 52.5 minutes of activity on 4 days per week, including walking and Pilates. To support her goal of increased activity, we recommend adding more vigorous exercise like running, swimming, or group fitness classes.

## Sample Meal Plan

**Total Estimated Calories:** 1500 (may need adjustments based on individual needs)

**Cost per Week:** $50 (adjusting for local prices)


**Breakfast Options:**

**Option 1:**

* **1 cup Oatmeal** (150 calories, 30g carbs, 3g protein, 3g fat, 0g sugars, 1g sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **½ cup Berries** (50 calories, 12g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 10g sugars, 0g sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **2 tbsp Almond Butter** (200 calories, 7g carbs, 8g protein, 16g fat, 1g sugars, 130mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $1.50

**Option 2:**

* **2 scrambled Eggs** (140 calories, 2g carbs, 13g protein, 10g fat, 1g sugars, 180mg sodium, 186mg cholesterol)
* **½ cup Spinach** (10 calories, 2g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 0g sugars, 80mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **½ cup Low-Fat Cottage Cheese** (100 calories, 6g carbs, 14g protein, 1g fat, 3g sugars, 80mg sodium, 5mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $2.00

**Option 3:**

* **1 cup Greek Yogurt** (150 calories, 17g carbs, 20g protein, 2g fat, 10g sugars, 150mg sodium, 5mg cholesterol)
* **½ cup Fruit Salad** (60 calories, 15g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 10g sugars, 20mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Cereal with ¼ cup Low-Fat Milk** (140 calories, 24g carbs, 4g protein, 2g fat, 10g sugars, 120mg sodium, 2mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $1.00

**Option 4:**

* **1 cup Tofu Scramble** (120 calories, 8g carbs, 10g protein, 5g fat, 0g sugars, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 slice Whole Wheat Toast** (70 calories, 13g carbs, 2g protein, 1g fat, 1g sugars, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 tbsp Avocado** (50 calories, 2g carbs, 2g protein, 4g fat, 0g sugars, 7mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $1.25

**Lunch Options:**

**Option 1:**

* **4 oz Grilled Chicken** (170 calories, 0g carbs, 33g protein, 6g fat, 0g sugars, 70mg sodium, 75mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Quinoa** (220 calories, 45g carbs, 8g protein, 2g fat, 0g sugars, 0g sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Steamed Broccoli** (50 calories, 11g carbs, 4g protein, 1g fat, 2g sugars, 60mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $3.00

**Option 2:**

* **4 oz Salmon** (180 calories, 0g carbs, 28g protein, 8g fat, 0g sugars, 75mg sodium, 45mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Mixed Greens Salad** (30 calories, 6g carbs, 2g protein, 1g fat, 2g sugars, 25mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **½ cup Black Bean Salad** (100 calories, 20g carbs, 8g protein, 1g fat, 1g sugars, 180mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $3.50

**Option 3:**

* **1 cup Lentil Soup** (150 calories, 26g carbs, 12g protein, 1g fat, 1g sugars, 750mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Salad** (50 calories, 10g carbs, 2g protein, 0g fat, 3g sugars, 50mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 slice Whole Wheat Bread** (70 calories, 13g carbs, 2g protein, 1g fat, 1g sugars, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $2.00

**Option 4:**

* **1 Veggie Burger on a Whole Wheat Bun** (250 calories, 35g carbs, 12g protein, 7g fat, 5g sugars, 400mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Sweet Potato Fries** (200 calories, 40g carbs, 2g protein, 5g fat, 4g sugars, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $2.50

**Dinner Options:**

**Option 1:**

* **4 oz Tofu Stir-Fry** (150 calories, 8g carbs, 15g protein, 5g fat, 0g sugars, 200mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Brown Rice** (220 calories, 45g carbs, 5g protein, 1g fat, 0g sugars, 0g sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Steamed Vegetables** (50 calories, 10g carbs, 3g protein, 1g fat, 2g sugars, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $2.50

**Option 2:**

* **4 oz Chicken Breast with 1 cup Roasted Vegetables** (300 calories, 20g carbs, 40g protein, 8g fat, 5g sugars, 200mg sodium, 80mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Salad** (40 calories, 5g carbs, 2g protein, 1g fat, 2g sugars, 75mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $4.00

**Option 3:**

* **1 cup Vegetable Curry** (250 calories, 35g carbs, 10g protein, 5g fat, 5g sugars, 800mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Brown Rice** (220 calories, 45g carbs, 5g protein, 1g fat, 0g sugars, 0g sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **½ cup Mango** (60 calories, 15g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 14g sugars, 10mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $3.00

**Option 4:**

* **1 cup Lentil Soup** (150 calories, 26g carbs, 12g protein, 1g fat, 1g sugars, 750mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Steamed Broccoli** (50 calories, 11g carbs, 4g protein, 1g fat, 2g sugars, 60mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 slice Whole Wheat Bread** (70 calories, 13g carbs, 2g protein, 1g fat, 1g sugars, 150mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $2.00

**Snacks:**

* **1/4 cup Mixed Nuts:** (170 calories, 5g carbs, 6g protein, 15g fat, 1g sugars, 100mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **½ cup Berries:** (50 calories, 12g carbs, 1g protein, 0g fat, 10g sugars, 0g sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 Apple with 2 tbsp Almond Butter:** (250 calories, 25g carbs, 8g protein, 16g fat, 10g sugars, 160mg sodium, 0mg cholesterol)
* **1 cup Greek Yogurt with 1/4 cup Granola:** (250 calories, 35g carbs, 15g protein, 8g fat, 15g sugars, 180mg sodium, 10mg cholesterol)

**Approx. Price:** $0.75-$1.50 each

**Notes:**

* The meal plan is a starting point and can be customized based on P18's preferences.
* P18 should prioritize whole, unprocessed foods, focusing on fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, and whole grains.
* She should aim for a balanced intake of macronutrients (proteins, carbs, and fats) for optimal energy levels and muscle growth.
* P18 should avoid restrictive eating practices and focus on mindful eating, ensuring she enjoys her food without guilt or anxiety.
* It is crucial to consult with a healthcare professional or registered dietitian for personalized guidance.
* The dietary plan should be combined with regular exercise for optimal results and overall health benefits.

This meal plan provides a healthy, balanced, and diverse starting point for P18's weight loss journey. She should focus on enjoying her food while ensuring adequate nutrition and calorie control. Regular exercise and support from a healthcare professional are key to achieving her goals. 
