## Personalized Dietary Plan for P23

**Participant Summary:**

P23 is an 18-year-old Asian male, who identifies with Indian culture. He is a physically active individual, engaging in 67.5 minutes of weightlifting and distance running four days a week. He is aiming to gain weight with a calorie surplus, while maintaining his current activity levels. He has a high spice tolerance and is willing to try new foods.  His preferred national cuisines are Turkish, Greek, and Egyptian.  He enjoys sweet, salty, and umami flavors, with a preference for crunchy, smooth, brittle, tender, and fibrous textures. He does not have any food allergies but avoids pork.  He is willing to spend $50 per week on food. 

**Dietary Needs:**

P23 needs a calorie surplus to support his weight gain goals.  His diet should be balanced with a focus on protein to support his active lifestyle and muscle growth.  He should also include healthy fats and complex carbohydrates to provide energy for his workouts.  Considering his cultural background and willingness to try new foods, the plan will incorporate both Indian and international cuisines.  

**Activity Notes:**

P23 should ensure adequate hydration before, during, and after his workouts to prevent dehydration. He should consume protein within 30-60 minutes after his workouts to support muscle recovery and growth.

**Meal Plan:**

**Breakfast Options (Approx. 400-500 calories):**

1. **Indian Spiced Oats:**  Steel-cut oats cooked with water, topped with chopped almonds, dried cranberries, and a sprinkle of cinnamon and cardamom. ($2.50)
2. **Turkish Menemen:** Scrambled eggs with diced tomatoes, peppers, and onions, spiced with cumin and paprika. Served with a side of whole-wheat toast. ($3.00)
3. **Greek Yogurt Parfait:** Plain Greek yogurt layered with granola, fresh berries, and a drizzle of honey. ($3.50)
4. **Overnight Oats:** Rolled oats soaked in milk or yogurt overnight, topped with chopped bananas, walnuts, and a sprinkle of chia seeds. ($2.00)

**Lunch Options (Approx. 500-600 calories):**

1. **Chicken Tikka Masala:**  Grilled chicken marinated in yogurt and Indian spices, served with brown rice and a side of vegetable curry.  ($4.00)
2. **Greek Salad with Tuna:**  Mixed greens with cherry tomatoes, cucumbers, red onions, olives, feta cheese, and a dressing of olive oil and lemon juice.  Topped with a can of tuna in water. ($4.50)
3. **Egyptian Koshari:**  A hearty dish of rice, lentils, macaroni, and chickpeas, topped with a spicy tomato sauce and a sprinkle of fried onions. ($3.50)
4. **Turkey and Avocado Wrap:**  Whole-wheat tortilla filled with roasted turkey, avocado, spinach, and a drizzle of hummus. ($3.00)

**Dinner Options (Approx. 600-700 calories):**

1. **Shrimp Biryani:** Basmati rice cooked with shrimp, spices, and saffron. Served with a side of raita (yogurt with cucumber and mint). ($5.00)
2. **Moussaka:** Layered eggplant, ground beef, and béchamel sauce, topped with feta cheese.  Served with a side of Greek salad. ($5.50)
3. **Chicken Shawarma:** Grilled chicken marinated in a blend of Middle Eastern spices, served with a side of rice, hummus, and a fresh vegetable salad. ($4.50)
4. **Lentil Curry:**  Lentils cooked with coconut milk and a blend of Indian spices, served with brown rice and a side of green beans. ($3.00)

**Snack Options (Approx. 150-200 calories):**

1. **Trail Mix:**  Almonds, cashews, dried cranberries, and sunflower seeds. ($1.50)
2. **Fruit with Nut Butter:**  Apple slices, banana, or orange with almond butter or peanut butter. ($1.00)
3. **Hard-boiled Egg:**  A protein-packed snack. ($0.50)
4. **Greek Yogurt with Berries:**  Plain Greek yogurt with fresh or frozen berries. ($1.50)

**Note:**  This is a sample meal plan; P23 can adjust it based on his preference and availability.  He should aim to consume a variety of foods from each food group to ensure he is getting all the nutrients he needs.  He should also be mindful of portion sizes, and adjust them based on his activity levels and weight gain progress. 

**Total Estimated Weekly Cost:**  $45-55 

**Nutritional Facts:**

The nutritional facts for each food item will vary depending on the specific ingredients used.  To obtain accurate information, P23 can refer to food labels, online databases, or consult a registered dietitian.

**Overall:**

This personalized meal plan is designed to help P23 reach his weight gain goals while maintaining a healthy and balanced diet. It incorporates a variety of foods from different cuisines to provide both variety and nutritional value.  P23 should be mindful of his calorie intake and adjust it based on his activity level and weight gain progress.  He should also consult with his doctor or a registered dietitian to ensure he is meeting all his nutritional needs.
