## Ryan Vo's Personalized Diet Plan

**Goal:** Maintain current weight and increase activity level.

**Budget:** $70 per week (approximately $10 per day).

**Calorie Goal:** Approximately 2,200 calories per day (based on your activity level and current weight).

**Activity:** 112.5 minutes of activity per day, 7 days a week. Increase intensity and duration gradually. Consider incorporating interval training for a more challenging workout. 

**Meal Breakdown:**

**Breakfast (350-400 calories)**

* **Option 1:** Vietnamese Banh Mi (250 calories, $3): This classic Vietnamese sandwich is packed with protein, fiber, and flavor. It features a crusty baguette filled with pork, pickled vegetables, cilantro, and a spicy chili sauce. You can make your own at home with a pre-made baguette or buy one at a local Vietnamese bakery.
* **Option 2:** Oatmeal with Berries and Nuts (300 calories, $2): A simple and satisfying breakfast option. Combine oatmeal with fresh berries and a handful of nuts for added protein, fiber, and healthy fats. 
* **Option 3:** Tofu Scramble with Veggies (350 calories, $4):  A healthy and flavorful vegan option. Scramble tofu with your favorite veggies like onions, bell peppers, and mushrooms. Season with spices and herbs. 
* **Option 4:** Breakfast Burrito (400 calories, $4): This hearty breakfast burrito is packed with protein and fiber. Fill a whole-wheat tortilla with scrambled eggs, beans, cheese, and your favorite veggies.

**Lunch (500-600 calories)**

* **Option 1:**  Korean Bibimbap (550 calories, $5): This colorful dish features rice, vegetables, meat, and a fried egg. You can customize it with your favorite ingredients.
* **Option 2:** Salmon Salad with Quinoa (500 calories, $6): A healthy and protein-packed lunch. Combine grilled salmon with quinoa, chopped vegetables, and a light dressing.
* **Option 3:** Lentil Soup with Whole Wheat Bread (550 calories, $4): A warm and satisfying lunch option. Lentil soup is a great source of protein, fiber, and iron.
* **Option 4:** Chicken Stir-fry with Brown Rice (600 calories, $5): This quick and easy lunch is packed with flavor. Stir-fry chicken with your favorite veggies like broccoli, carrots, and bell peppers. Serve over brown rice.

**Dinner (650-750 calories)**

* **Option 1:** Pad Thai (650 calories, $7): This classic Thai dish features rice noodles, tofu or chicken, vegetables, and a peanut sauce.
* **Option 2:** Vegetarian Chili (600 calories, $5): A hearty and satisfying chili recipe packed with vegetables, beans, and spices.
* **Option 3:** Salmon with Roasted Vegetables (700 calories, $8): This healthy and flavorful dinner option features grilled salmon with roasted vegetables like asparagus, broccoli, and carrots.
* **Option 4:** Vietnamese Pho (750 calories, $8): This flavorful noodle soup is a great source of protein and vegetables. You can customize it with your favorite ingredients.

**Snacks (150-200 calories):**

* **Option 1:** Fruit with Yogurt (150 calories, $2)
* **Option 2:** Trail Mix (200 calories, $1)
* **Option 3:** Hard-boiled Eggs (150 calories, $1)
* **Option 4:** Rice Cakes with Hummus (180 calories, $2)

**Notes:**

* This diet plan emphasizes fresh, whole foods. 
* This diet includes a variety of foods from different cultures, including Vietnamese, Korean, and Thai cuisines.
* Adjust the portion sizes based on your individual calorie needs. 
* Choose lean protein sources like chicken, fish, tofu, and beans.
* Focus on fruits and vegetables for fiber, vitamins, and minerals.
* Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* Make sure to incorporate healthy fats like avocado, nuts, and seeds. 
* Experiment with new spices and herbs to add flavor to your dishes.
* Consider adding a multivitamin to ensure you are getting all the nutrients you need.

**Enjoy!** 
