## Ryan's Personalized Dietary Plan 

**Goal:** Maintain current weight and activity level.

**Budget:** $70/week

**Meals per day:** 3

**Dietary Restrictions:** No beef.

**Food Preferences:** 
* **Taste:** Sweet, Salty, Sour, Umami
* **Texture:** Creamy, Chewy, Brittle, Tender
* **Spice Tolerance:** 4
* **Cuisine:** Japanese, Nepali, Mediterranean

**Activity:**  Military conditioning, mostly cardio-based. Occasional strength training. 67.5 minutes per day, 4 days per week.

**Notes:** 
* This plan prioritizes whole foods, lean protein, and complex carbohydrates to fuel your active lifestyle.
* The provided meal options are suggestions, feel free to swap out ingredients to suit your preferences.
* The calorie counts are approximate and may vary depending on the exact ingredients used.
* Remember to stay hydrated throughout the day by drinking plenty of water.

### Sample Meal Plan:

**Breakfast (350-400 calories)**

* **Option 1: ** *Nepali Thukpa* (Soup Noodles) - A hearty and flavorful soup made with noodles, vegetables, and meat or tofu (approx. $3).
* **Option 2:**  *Japanese Miso Soup* with tofu and seaweed (approx. $2) + 2 slices of whole wheat toast with avocado (approx. $1).
* **Option 3:**  *Overnight Oats* with chia seeds, berries, and a drizzle of honey (approx. $1).
* **Option 4:** *Scrambled Eggs* with spinach and diced tomatoes (approx. $2).

**Lunch (500-600 calories)**

* **Option 1:**  *Mediterranean Chicken Salad Wrap* with hummus, cucumber, and bell peppers (approx. $5).
* **Option 2:**  *Tuna Salad Sandwich* with whole wheat bread, lettuce, and tomato (approx. $4).
* **Option 3:** *Chicken Stir-fry* with brown rice and mixed vegetables (approx. $4).
* **Option 4:**  *Leftover Nepali Thukpa* from breakfast (approx. $0).

**Dinner (600-700 calories)**

* **Option 1:** *Indian Butter Chicken* with basmati rice and a side of lentil soup (approx. $6).
* **Option 2:** *Salmon with Roasted Vegetables* (broccoli, carrots, bell peppers) (approx. $8).
* **Option 3:**  *Chicken Yakitori Skewers* with grilled vegetables and brown rice (approx. $5).
* **Option 4:** *Chicken and Vegetable Curry* with naan bread (approx. $4).

**Snacks:** (100-200 calories)

* **Option 1:**  *Fruit* (apple, banana, orange)
* **Option 2:** *Trail Mix* (nuts, seeds, dried fruit)
* **Option 3:**  *Greek Yogurt* with berries
* **Option 4:**  *Hummus* with whole wheat crackers

**Important Considerations:**

* **Hydration:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day to stay hydrated and support your active lifestyle.
* **Variety:** Rotate through different food options each week to ensure you're getting a balanced diet and prevent boredom. 
* **Adjustments:**  This plan is a guideline. Feel free to adjust the portions and meal frequency to fit your individual needs and preferences.
* **New Foods:** You mentioned being willing to try new foods. Consider incorporating a new ingredient or dish into your meals once or twice a week to expand your culinary horizons. For example, try a new type of fish, like cod or halibut, for your salmon meal, or experiment with different types of Nepali spices. 

This plan aims to provide Ryan with a balanced and fulfilling dietary experience while staying within his budget and respecting his cultural preferences. Remember, consistency is key. Aim to stick to this plan for at least a few weeks to see the best results. 
