## Sai Padamati's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Maintain current weight, increase activity levels.

**Budget:** $70 per week for 2 meals per day (approximately $3.50 per meal).

**Activity:**  Currently engaging in 67.5 minutes of walking and biking 6 days a week. Aim to gradually increase activity duration or intensity over time.  

**Dietary Notes:**  
* Focus on a diverse range of foods, especially fruits, vegetables, and lean protein.
* Incorporate new and flavorful cuisines from Thailand, China, and Mexico.
* No beef, but all other meats are acceptable. 
* Preference for sweet, sour, umami flavors, and crunchy, creamy, tender textures.
* High spice tolerance.

**Sample Meal Options:**

**Breakfast (Approximately 350 calories)**

**Option 1:**  **Indian-inspired Oatmeal:**  Oatmeal with milk, topped with chopped fruit (mango, banana), a sprinkle of cinnamon, and a drizzle of honey.  ($1.50)
**Option 2:**  **Thai Coconut Pancakes:**  Thin coconut pancakes filled with sweet potatoes and a drizzle of honey.  ($2.00) 
**Option 3:**  **Mexican Omelet:**  Omelet with spinach, bell peppers, onions, and salsa.  ($1.75)
**Option 4:**  **Chinese congee:** Savory rice porridge with egg and scallions.  ($1.25)

**Lunch (Approximately 450 calories)**

**Option 1:**  **Indian Lentil Soup:**  Hearty lentil soup with vegetables, served with a side of whole grain roti.  ($2.00)
**Option 2:**  **Thai Chicken Stir-Fry:**  Chicken stir-fried with vegetables, tofu, and peanut sauce served over brown rice.  ($2.50)
**Option 3:**  **Mexican Chicken Salad:**  Mixed greens, grilled chicken, corn, beans, and a light cilantro lime dressing.  ($2.25)
**Option 4:**  **Chinese Noodle Bowl:**  Noodles with vegetables and chicken in a light soy sauce broth. ($2.00)

**Notes:**

*  These are just sample meal options. You can mix and match based on your preferences.
*  Be sure to drink plenty of water throughout the day.
*  Focus on getting a variety of nutrients from different food groups.
*  Experiment with different spices and herbs to enhance flavors.
*  Consider incorporating more fruits and vegetables into your diet.
*  Gradually increase your activity levels over time.
*  Listen to your body and adjust your diet and activity levels as needed.

**This diet plan can be easily adapted to fit your preferences and budget. You can explore other recipes and cuisines based on your willingness to try new foods and your cultural preferences.** 
