## P3's Personalized Dietary Plan

This plan focuses on providing a balanced, nutrient-rich diet while adhering to your Halal dietary restrictions and incorporating your love for Indian and Pakistani cuisine. It also includes some options with international flavors to expand your culinary horizons!

**Estimated Total Weekly Cost:** $65-$75 (This can be adjusted based on your local grocery prices)

**Daily Calorie Goal:** 1800-2000 (This is an estimate based on your current weight and activity level. It may need to be adjusted depending on your individual needs)

**Activity:** Keep up your current routine of 67.5 minutes of activity per day, 6 days a week. Aim to gradually increase the intensity or duration of your workouts to achieve your "More Activity" goal. Consider incorporating HIIT workouts or strength training for improved fitness and calorie burn.

**Meal Plan:**

**Breakfast (350-400 Calories)**

**Option 1:**  Halal Chicken and Vegetable Omelette (₹100/$1.30)
* Ingredients: 1 egg, 1 egg white, 1/4 cup chopped onion, 1/4 cup chopped bell pepper, 1/4 cup chopped spinach, 1 tbsp halal chicken breast (cooked), salt, pepper
* Note: You can add more vegetables or cheese for extra flavor.

**Option 2:**  Oatmeal with Fruit and Nuts (₹50/$0.65)
* Ingredients: 1/2 cup rolled oats, 1 cup water, 1/4 cup mixed berries, 1/8 cup chopped almonds, 1 tsp honey.
* Note: You can try adding different fruits and nuts like banana, chia seeds, or pumpkin seeds.

**Option 3:**  Paratha with Raita (₹70/$0.90)
* Ingredients: 1 whole wheat paratha, 1/2 cup plain yogurt, 1/4 cup chopped cucumber, 1/4 tsp cumin powder, 1/8 tsp black salt.
* Note: You can use pre-made parathas for convenience.

**Option 4:**  Yogurt with Granola and Berries (₹80/$1)
* Ingredients: 1 cup plain yogurt, 1/4 cup granola, 1/4 cup mixed berries.
* Note: Look for granola options that are low in sugar and high in fiber.

**Lunch (500-600 Calories)**

**Option 1:**  Chicken Tikka Masala with Rice (₹150/$2)
* Ingredients: 1 cup chicken tikka masala (halal), 1 cup brown rice.
* Note: Opt for a lighter version of tikka masala by using less cream and butter.

**Option 2:**  Lentil Soup with Whole Wheat Bread (₹120/$1.60)
* Ingredients: 1 cup lentil soup (halal), 1 slice whole wheat bread, 1/4 cup salad with light dressing.
* Note: Experiment with different lentil soup recipes, adding spices like ginger, garlic, turmeric for flavor.

**Option 3:**  Vegetable Stir Fry with Brown Rice (₹130/$1.75)
* Ingredients: 1 cup mixed vegetables (broccoli, carrots, bell peppers, etc.), 1 tbsp soy sauce, 1 tsp sesame oil, 1 cup brown rice.
* Note: Add tofu or tempeh for extra protein.

**Option 4:**  Quinoa Salad with Grilled Chicken (₹140/$1.85)
* Ingredients: 1 cup quinoa, 1/4 cup chopped grilled chicken (halal), 1/4 cup chopped vegetables, 1/4 cup vinaigrette dressing.
* Note: Quinoa is a great source of protein and fiber and can be used in various salads.

**Dinner (600-700 Calories)**

**Option 1:**  Chicken Biryani (₹180/$2.40)
* Ingredients: 1 cup chicken biryani (halal), 1/2 cup raita (yogurt based dip).
* Note: Choose chicken biryani with less oil and more vegetables.

**Option 2:**  Fish Curry with Rice (₹160/$2.15)
* Ingredients: 1 cup fish curry (halal), 1 cup brown rice, 1/2 cup steamed vegetables.
* Note: Use fresh fish and a mild curry paste to keep it light.

**Option 3:**  Vegetable Pulao with Raita (₹150/$2)
* Ingredients: 1 cup vegetable pulao (rice with vegetables), 1/2 cup raita.
* Note: Experiment with different vegetable combinations.

**Option 4:**  Falafel Pita with Hummus and Salad (₹130/$1.75)
* Ingredients: 2 falafel (halal), 1 pita bread, 1/4 cup hummus, 1/4 cup salad (lettuce, cucumber, tomato).
* Note: Look for falafel made with whole chickpeas and less oil.

**Snack (100-200 Calories)**

**Option 1:**  Fresh Fruit (₹25/$0.35)
* Examples: Apple, Banana, Orange, Kiwi.

**Option 2:**  Plain Yogurt with Nuts and Seeds (₹40/$0.55)
* Ingredients: 1 cup plain yogurt, 1/8 cup chopped almonds, 1/8 cup pumpkin seeds.

**Option 3:**  Popcorn (₹30/$0.40)
* Note: Choose air-popped popcorn for a healthier option.

**Option 4:**  Trail Mix (₹45/$0.60)
* Ingredients: 1/4 cup nuts, 1/4 cup dried fruit, 1/4 cup seeds.

**Food Exploration:** This diet plan encourages trying new cuisines while staying within your comfort zone. Try incorporating the following options:

* **Japanese Cuisine:** Experiment with dishes like miso soup or edamame.
* **Mediterranean Cuisine:** Explore flavors like hummus, baba ghanoush, or Greek yogurt with cucumber and dill.
* **Thai Cuisine:** Try a light and fragrant Thai curry with rice or noodles. 

**Important Considerations:**

* **Hydration:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* **Portion Control:** Be mindful of portion sizes and adjust the quantity based on your individual needs.
* **Listen to your body:** Pay attention to your hunger and fullness cues, and make adjustments as needed.
* **Variety:** Embrace diverse food options and experiment with different ingredients to keep your meals interesting.
* **Flexibility:** This is a sample plan, so feel free to modify it to suit your preferences and dietary needs.

**Note:**  This is a general dietary plan and should be used as a guide. It's recommended to consult with a registered dietitian or nutritionist for personalized advice and recommendations tailored to your specific needs and health goals.