## Personalized Dietary Plan for Srikar Guntaka

**Background:** Srikar is an 18-year-old male, 65 inches tall, and weighing 155 pounds. He identifies as Asian, specifically Indian, and follows Hinduism. He is active, engaging in weightlifting, biking, and basketball for 52.5 minutes, 6 days a week. He has no dietary restrictions except for avoiding beef and is willing to try new foods.  His preferred cuisine is Indian, and he enjoys sweet flavors and smooth textures.

**Goal:** Weight loss (calorie deficit) while maintaining current activity levels. 

**Meals per day:** 2

**Budget:** $70 per week

**Meal Options:**

**Breakfast (350-400 calories, approx. $3-4 per serving)**

* **Option 1:**  *Idli Sambar* with a side of *coconut chutney* (South Indian steamed rice cakes with lentil stew and coconut sauce).  
    * **Price:** $3.50
    * **Calorie Count:**  375
    * **Notes:** This is a traditional Indian breakfast, high in protein and fiber.
* **Option 2:**  Oatmeal with berries and a drizzle of honey.
    * **Price:**  $3
    * **Calorie Count:**  380
    * **Notes:** A filling, high-fiber breakfast with complex carbohydrates and antioxidants from berries. 
* **Option 3:**  *Poha* (flattened rice flakes) with vegetables and *sprouts* (Indian breakfast dish with lightly sautéed rice flakes, vegetables, and sprouted lentils).
    * **Price:**  $4
    * **Calorie Count:**  390
    * **Notes:**  A flavorful, nutritious option with a mix of carbohydrates, protein, and vitamins.
* **Option 4:**  *Chilaquiles* (Mexican dish of fried tortilla chips topped with salsa, eggs, and cheese).
    * **Price:**  $4
    * **Calorie Count:**  400
    * **Notes:** A new cuisine introduction for Srikar, offering a spicy and filling option.

**Lunch (500-600 calories, approx. $4-5 per serving)**

* **Option 1:**  *Chicken Tikka Masala* with brown rice (Indian dish with marinated chicken in a creamy tomato-based sauce).
    * **Price:**  $4.50
    * **Calorie Count:**  525
    * **Notes:**  A classic Indian dish, providing a good source of protein and fiber.
* **Option 2:**  Tuna salad sandwich on whole wheat bread with a side salad. 
    * **Price:**  $4
    * **Calorie Count:**  550
    * **Notes:** A simple and healthy option with a good balance of protein, carbohydrates, and healthy fats.
* **Option 3:**  *Lentil soup* with a side of whole wheat bread and a fruit (Indian lentil stew).
    * **Price:**  $4.50
    * **Calorie Count:**  575
    * **Notes:**  A hearty and filling meal, high in protein and fiber.
* **Option 4:**  *Falafel* with *hummus* and a side of mixed greens (Middle Eastern fried chickpea balls with a chickpea paste spread and a fresh salad).
    * **Price:**  $5
    * **Calorie Count:**  585
    * **Notes:**  Another new cuisine experience for Srikar, offering a flavorful, plant-based protein option.

**Activity Notes:**

* Aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise most days of the week.
* Incorporate strength training exercises twice a week to build muscle mass and boost metabolism.
* Listen to your body and adjust activity levels as needed.
* Consider taking breaks throughout the day to move around and stay active.

**Additional Tips:**

* Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* Aim for 5 servings of fruits and vegetables daily.
* Prioritize whole grains over refined grains.
* Choose lean protein sources and limit processed foods.
* Be mindful of portion sizes.
* Experiment with new recipes and cuisines to keep your diet interesting and enjoyable.
* Consult with a healthcare professional or registered dietitian if you have any questions or concerns about your diet. 

**Note:** This dietary plan is a general guideline and should be adapted based on your individual needs and preferences. The provided calorie counts are estimates and may vary depending on the specific ingredients used. It is important to monitor your calorie intake and adjust your meals accordingly to reach your desired weight loss goal.