## Srikar's Personalized Dietary Plan

**Goal:** Lose weight (calorie deficit) while maintaining current activity levels.

**Budget:** $70 per week, averaging $10 per meal.

**Calorie Goal:**  A calorie deficit is required for weight loss.  To determine the exact number, we need to calculate your Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) and factor in your activity level. This plan will aim for an approximate daily calorie target of **1800-2000**. 

**Meal Options:**

**Breakfast (400-500 calories)**

* **Option 1:** Masala Omelette (Indian Spiced Omelette) with Whole Wheat Toast and a Side of Fruit (approx. $3)
    * **Notes:** A high-protein breakfast option.
    * **Cultural Influence:** Indian cuisine.
* **Option 2:** Oatmeal with Berries and Nuts (approx. $2)
    * **Notes:**  High in fiber and protein, good for a sustained energy release.
    * **Cultural Influence:**  A global breakfast staple.
* **Option 3:** Smoothie with Yogurt, Banana, Spinach, and Almond Milk (approx. $2.50)
    * **Notes:**  Quick and easy, packed with nutrients and protein. 
    * **Cultural Influence:**  A modern, globally popular breakfast option.
* **Option 4:**  Idli (South Indian steamed rice cakes) with Coconut Chutney (approx. $3)
    * **Notes:** Traditional South Indian breakfast, light and easy to digest.
    * **Cultural Influence:** South Indian cuisine.

**Lunch (400-500 calories)**

* **Option 1:**  Chicken Tikka Masala with Brown Rice (approx. $5)
    * **Notes:** A popular Indian dish, full of flavor and protein.
    * **Cultural Influence:** Indian cuisine.
* **Option 2:**  Salmon with Roasted Vegetables (approx. $4.50)
    * **Notes:**  A nutritious and healthy option, rich in omega-3 fatty acids.
    * **Cultural Influence:**  A popular dish globally.
* **Option 3:**  Chickpea and Spinach Curry with Whole Wheat Roti (approx. $3)
    * **Notes:**  A vegetarian option, packed with protein and fiber.
    * **Cultural Influence:** Indian cuisine.
* **Option 4:**  Tuna Salad Sandwich with Whole Wheat Bread (approx. $3)
    * **Notes:**  A classic and easy lunch option.
    * **Cultural Influence:**  A globally popular lunch option.

**Snacks (Optional - 100-200 calories)**

* **Option 1:**  Apple with Peanut Butter (approx. $1)
* **Option 2:**  Mixed Nuts (approx. $2)
* **Option 3:**  Yogurt with Berries (approx. $1.50)
* **Option 4:**  Fruit Salad (approx. $1)

**Activity:**

* **Current Activity:** Lifting weights at the gym, biking, and basketball, totaling 52.5 minutes per day, 6 days a week.  
* **Recommendations:**  Maintaining your current activity level is a great way to achieve your weight loss goals.  Consider incorporating some high-intensity interval training (HIIT) workouts into your routine for added calorie burn.

**Notes:**

* **Spice Tolerance:** Since your spice tolerance is high, you can incorporate spicy dishes from Indian cuisine and other cuisines.
* **Cultural Preferences:**  This plan focuses on Indian cuisine and incorporates some global options to diversify your diet.
* **Avoiding Beef:**  This plan does not include beef in any of the meal options.
* **Dietary Restrictions:** No additional dietary restrictions are factored into this plan.
* **New Foods:** As you are willing to try new foods, this plan includes a mix of familiar and unfamiliar dishes.

**Sample Daily Meal Plan:**

* **Breakfast:**  Idli with Coconut Chutney
* **Lunch:**  Salmon with Roasted Vegetables 
* **Snack (optional):**  Mixed Nuts

**Remember:** 

*  This is a sample meal plan, and you can adjust it based on your individual preferences and needs. 
*  It's essential to listen to your body and adjust your calorie intake and activity levels accordingly. 
*  Stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water throughout the day.
*  Consult with a registered dietitian or a healthcare professional for personalized guidance.

**Additional Recommendations:**

* **Cook at home:** Cooking at home allows for greater control over ingredients and portion sizes, helping you stay within your budget.
* **Read food labels:** Be mindful of added sugars and unhealthy fats.
* **Prioritize whole foods:** Incorporate fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean protein sources, and healthy fats into your diet. 
* **Make gradual changes:** Don't try to overhaul your diet overnight. Implement changes gradually to make them sustainable.

**This dietary plan is a starting point.  We encourage you to experiment with different recipes, ingredients, and meal combinations to find what works best for you.** 
