## Personalized Dietary Plan for Ximena Rocha

**Goal:** Weight loss (calorie deficit) with increased physical activity.

**Budget:** $70 per week (approximately $10 per day)

**Meal Frequency:** 2 meals per day

**Food Preferences:** Sweet, Salty, Sour, Umami (Savory), Crunchy, Creamy, Chewy, Smooth, Brittle, Tender, Fibrous, Spice Tolerance: 4, Open to new cuisines.

**Activity Level:** 37.5 minutes of activity 4 days a week, including walking to class and gym workouts.

**Recommended Daily Calorie Intake:** 1500-1600 calories (This is a general guideline, adjust based on your weight loss progress.)

**Sample Meal Plan:**

**Breakfast (350-400 calories)**

* **Option 1:**  Avocado Toast with Smoked Salmon and a side of sliced fruit (Avocado - $2, Smoked Salmon - $3, Whole-Wheat Bread - $1, Fruit - $1) - **Total $7**
* **Option 2:**  Quinoa Breakfast Bowl with berries, chopped nuts, and a drizzle of honey (Quinoa - $2, Berries - $2, Nuts - $1, Honey - $1) - **Total $6**
* **Option 3:** Scrambled Eggs with spinach and a side of whole-wheat toast (Eggs - $1, Spinach - $1, Whole-wheat Bread - $1) - **Total $3**
* **Option 4:**  Overnight Oats with chia seeds, banana, and cinnamon (Oats - $1, Chia Seeds - $1, Banana - $1, Cinnamon - $0.50) - **Total $3.50**

**Dinner (600-700 calories)**

* **Option 1:**  Chicken Fajita Bowls with brown rice, black beans, bell peppers, onions, and salsa (Chicken - $4, Brown Rice - $1, Black Beans - $1, Bell Peppers - $1, Onions - $1, Salsa - $1) - **Total $9**
* **Option 2:** Salmon with roasted vegetables and quinoa (Salmon - $5, Quinoa - $2, Vegetables - $2) - **Total $9**
* **Option 3:** Lentil soup with whole-wheat bread and a side salad (Lentils - $1, Vegetables - $2, Whole-wheat Bread - $1, Salad - $1) - **Total $5**
* **Option 4:**  Tofu Scramble with bell peppers, onions, and a side of avocado (Tofu - $2, Bell Peppers - $1, Onions - $1, Avocado - $2) - **Total $6**

**Snacks:** 

* **Mid-morning (150-200 calories)**: Fruits like apple, banana, orange, or a small handful of trail mix.
* **Afternoon (150-200 calories)**: Greek yogurt with berries, a handful of almonds, or a protein bar.

**Activity Recommendations:**

* **Increase your gym days:** Aim for 5-6 days of gym workouts to maximize your calorie burn and muscle building.
* **Explore new forms of exercise:** Try activities like swimming, dancing, or hiking to keep things interesting.
* **Make walking a priority:**  Walk to the grocery store, explore your neighborhood, or take the stairs whenever possible.
* **Set realistic goals:** Start with small changes and gradually increase your activity level.

**Tips:**

* **Portion control:** Be mindful of serving sizes to stay within your calorie goals.
* **Hydration:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day.
* **Cooking at home:** Prepare meals at home as often as possible to control ingredients and save money.
* **Explore new cuisines:** Try dishes from different cultures to expand your culinary horizons.
* **Listen to your body:** Adjust the plan as needed to accommodate your preferences and energy levels.

**Note:** This is a sample meal plan and should be tailored to your individual needs and preferences. Consult a registered dietitian or nutritionist for personalized advice. 
