## Personalized Dietary Plan for Ximena Rocha

**Background Information:**

* **Age:** 18
* **Sex:** Female
* **Height:** 60 inches 
* **Weight:** 125 pounds 
* **Race:** Hispanic or Latino
* **Culture:** Mexico
* **Religion:** Christianity
* **Activity:** 37.5 minutes per day, 4 days per week.  Walking to class and gym routine.
* **Taste Preferences:** Sweet, Salty, Sour, Umami 
* **Texture Preferences:** Crunchy, Creamy, Chewy, Smooth, Tender
* **Spice Tolerance:** 4
* **Food Preferences:** Anything 
* **Budget:** $70 per week 
* **Goal:** Lose weight (calorie deficit) and increase activity
* **Meals per day:** 2 
* **Willingness to try new foods:** 3

**Dietary Plan:**

**Meal 1: Breakfast (Approx. 300-400 calories)**

* **Option 1:** Overnight Oats with Berries and Nuts (approx. $2.50)
    * Combine 1/2 cup rolled oats, 1/2 cup milk (dairy or plant-based), 1/4 cup mixed berries, 1 tablespoon chopped nuts, and a sprinkle of cinnamon in a jar. Refrigerate overnight.
* **Option 2:** Scrambled Eggs with Spinach and Avocado Toast (approx. $3.00)
    * Scramble 2 eggs with a dash of salt and pepper. Sauté a handful of spinach. Toast a slice of whole-wheat bread and top with mashed avocado and a pinch of red pepper flakes. 
* **Option 3:** Smoothie with Mango, Banana, and Spinach (approx. $2.00)
    * Blend 1/2 cup frozen mango, 1/2 banana, a handful of spinach, 1/2 cup yogurt, and a splash of water or milk.
* **Option 4:** Chickpea Flour Pancakes with Banana and Peanut Butter (approx. $2.50)
    * Make pancakes using 1/4 cup chickpea flour, 1/4 cup milk, 1 egg, and a pinch of salt. Top with sliced banana and a tablespoon of peanut butter. 

**Meal 2: Dinner (Approx. 500-600 calories)**

* **Option 1:** Lentil Soup with Roasted Vegetables (approx. $4.00)
    * Make a simple lentil soup with 1 cup lentils, 4 cups vegetable broth, 1 chopped onion, 2 carrots, 1 celery stalk, and spices like cumin, turmeric, and curry powder. Roast 1 cup of mixed vegetables like broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts with olive oil, salt, and pepper.
* **Option 2:** Baked Chicken with Sweet Potato Fries and Salad (approx. $6.00)
    * Bake 4 ounces of chicken breast with seasoning like paprika, garlic powder, and onion powder. Cut a sweet potato into fries and bake with olive oil and salt. Make a simple salad with mixed greens, cherry tomatoes, and a light vinaigrette. 
* **Option 3:** Salmon with Quinoa and Roasted Asparagus (approx. $7.00)
    * Bake or grill 4 ounces of salmon fillet with lemon and herbs like dill or thyme. Cook 1/2 cup quinoa according to package directions. Roast 1 cup of asparagus with olive oil, salt, and pepper.
* **Option 4:** Tofu Stir-Fry with Brown Rice and Vegetables (approx. $5.00)
    * Sauté 1/2 block of firm tofu with your favorite vegetables like broccoli, bell peppers, and onions. Use soy sauce, ginger, and garlic for flavor. Cook 1/2 cup brown rice according to package directions.

**Activity Notes:**

* Aim to increase activity levels beyond your current routine. 
* Consider adding a brisk walk or light jog for 15-30 minutes, 3-4 times per week.
* Explore new activities you enjoy like dancing, swimming, or cycling.
* Aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise most days of the week.

**Additional Recommendations:**

* **Hydration:** Drink plenty of water throughout the day. 
* **Portion control:** Be mindful of portion sizes and avoid overeating. 
* **Mindful eating:** Pay attention to your hunger cues and stop eating when you are satisfied.
* **Limit processed foods:** Focus on whole, unprocessed foods whenever possible.
* **Experiment with new foods:** Continue to expand your palate by trying new and culturally diverse cuisines.
* **Seek professional guidance:** Consult a registered dietitian or healthcare professional if you have any specific dietary concerns or require personalized guidance. 

**Remember:** This dietary plan is a starting point. You can adjust it based on your individual preferences and needs. It is crucial to be consistent and make gradual changes to your diet and lifestyle for long-term success.